

===== PAGE 1 =====
Republic of the Philippines
Department of Education
B D
IDDING OCUMENTS
For
P H
ROCUREMENT OF UMAN
R I
ESOURCES NFORMATION
S
YSTEM
2026C-ICTS2-002-B5-CB-034
PhP500,000,000.00
Information and Communications Technology Service-
Solutions Development Division
First Edition
July 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Glossary of Acronyms, Terms, and Abbreviations ....................................... 3
Definition of Terms .................................................................................... 5
Section I. Invitation to Bid ......................................................................... 7
Section II. Instructions to Bidders ........................................................... 12
Section III. Bid Data Sheet ....................................................................... 44
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract .............................................. 50
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract ................................................ 65
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements ...................................................... 71
Section VII. Technical Specifications ....................................................... 89
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms ..................... 118

===== PAGE 3 =====
Glossary of Acronyms, Terms, and Abbreviations
ABC – Approved Budget for the Contract.
BAC – Bids and Awards Committee.
BDS – Bid Data Sheet.
BIR – Bureau of Internal Revenue.
BSP – Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.
CDA - Cooperative Development Authority.
CIF – Cost Insurance and Freight.
CIP – Carriage and Insurance Paid.
COS – Contract of Service.
CPI – Consumer Price Index.
DDP – Delivered Duty Paid.
DOLE – Department of Labor and Employment.
DTI – Department of Trade and Industry.
EXW – Ex works.
FCA – “Free Carrier” shipping point.
FOB – “Free on Board” shipping point.
GCC - General Conditions of Contract.
GFI – Government Financial Institution.
GOCC – Government-Owned and/or –Controlled Corporation.
GoP – Government of the Philippines.
GPPB – Government Procurement Policy Board.
HoPE – Head of Procuring Entity.
INCOTERMS – International Commercial Terms.
IRR – Implementing Rules and Regulations.
ITB – Instructions to Bidders.
JO – Job Order.
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
Glossary of Acronyms, Terms, and Abbreviations
LCB- Lowest Calculated Bid.
LCRB – Lowest Calculated Responsive Bid.
LGU – Local Government Unit
LoC – Letter of Credit.
MAB – Most Advantageous Bid.
MARB – Most Advantageous Responsive Bid.
MEARB – Most Economically Advantageous Responsive Bid.
MYCA – Multi-Year Contracting Authority.
NFCC – Net Financial Contracting Capacity.
NGA – National Government Agency.
PhilGEPS - Philippine Government Electronic Procurement System.
PSA – Philippine Statistics Authority.
RA No. – Republic Act Number.
SARB – Single Advantageous Responsive Bid.
SCC - Special Conditions of Contract.
SCRB – Single Calculated Responsive Bid.
SEARB – Single Economically Advantageous Responsive Bid.
SEC – Securities and Exchange Commission.
SLCC – Single Largest Completed Contract.
UN – United Nations.
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
Definition of Terms
Bid – a signed offer, proposal, or quotation submitted by a supplier, manufacturer,
distributor, contractor, consultant, or service provider in response to the
requirements of the Procuring Entity as stated in the Bidding Documents. (IRR,
Section 5[c]).
Bidder – a supplier, manufacturer, distributor, contractor, consultant, and service
provider, whether public or private, who submits a Bid in response to the
requirements of the Procuring Entity as stated in the Bidding Documents. (IRR,
Section 5[d]).
Bidding Documents – the documents issued by the Procuring Entity as the basis
for Bids, furnishing all information necessary to prospective Bidder to prepare a
Bid for the Goods, Infrastructure Projects, and Consulting Services required by
the Procuring Entity. (IRR, Section 5[e]).
Contract – refers to the agreement entered into between the Procuring Entity and
the Supplier or Manufacturer or Distributor or Service Provider for procurement
of Goods and Services; Contractor for Procurement of Infrastructure Projects; or
Consultant or Consulting Firm for Procurement of Consulting Services; as the
case may be, as recorded in the Contract Form signed by the parties, including
all attachments and appendices thereto and all documents incorporated by
reference therein.
Contract Price - the price payable to the Supplier under the Contract for the full
and proper performance of its contractual obligations.
Effective Date of the Contract – the date indicated in the contract. However, the
Supplier shall commence performance of its obligations only upon receipt of the
Notice to Proceed.
Foreign-funded Procurement or Foreign-Assisted Project – refers to the acquisition
of Goods, Consulting Services, and the contracting for Infrastructure Projects by
the Government of the Philippines which are wholly or partly funded by foreign
loans or grants pursuant to a Treaty or International or Executive Agreement.
Framework Agreement – is a procurement strategy which shall be in the nature of
an option contract between the Procuring Entity and the Bidder that stipulates
the terms and conditions to be applied in subsequent contracts for the
procurement of Goods, Infrastructure Projects, and Consulting Services with a
single or multiple contractor, manufacturer, supplier, distributor, consultant, and
service provider to expand the pool of prospective Bidders, take advantage of
economies of scale, minimize the administrative burden of conducting separate
procurement activities, and generate time and money savings. (IRR, Section 16.2).
Goods – refer to (i) all items, supplies, and materials, whether in the nature of
equipment, furniture, stationery, materials for construction, or personal property
of any kind, needed in the transaction of public businesses or in the pursuit of
any government undertaking, project or activity; or (ii) general support services
which pertain to all types of services except Consulting Services and Infrastructure
Projects, such as the repair and maintenance of equipment and furniture, as well
as trucking, hauling, janitorial, security, and related or analogous services.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
Definition of Terms
Personnel Services or individual COS or JO engagements do not fall under this
definition; (IRR, Section 5[n])
MARB – refers to the award criteria in the procurement of Goods where the
considerations for the award of contract are the eligibility of the bidder, the
responsiveness of its bid to the technical requirements, and the most
advantageous bid in reference to the highest rated offer based on the quality
component of the bid.
MEARB – refers to the award criteria in the procurement of Goods where the
considerations for the award of contract are the eligibility of the bidder, and the
responsiveness of its bid to the technical requirements, and the determination of
the most economically advantageous bid in reference to the quality-price ratio
allocated to the technical and financial components of the bid.
Online submission – pertains to the submission of the bid for Goods and the bid
envelopes containing the technical and financial components of the bid through
electronic means or through the electronic bidding facility of the PhilGEPS.
Project – refers to a specific or identified procurement covering Goods,
Infrastructure Projects or Consulting Services. A Procurement Project shall be
described, detailed, and scheduled in the Project Procurement Management Plan
prepared by the agency which shall be consolidated in the procuring entity's
Annual Procurement Plan.
Services - means those services ancillary to the supply of the Goods, such as
transportation and insurance, and any other incidental services, such as
installation, commissioning, provision of technical assistance, training, and
other such obligations of the Supplier covered under the Contract.
Supplier – refers to a citizen, or any corporate body or commercial company duly
organized and registered under the laws where it is established, habitually
established in business and engaged in the manufacture or sale of the
merchandise or performance of the general services covered by its Bid. Supplier
as used in these Bidding Documents may likewise refer to a manufacturer,
distributor, contractor, consultant, or service provider.
Verified Report - the report submitted by the Implementing Unit to the HoPE
setting forth its findings as to the existence of grounds or causes for termination
and explicitly stating its recommendation for the issuance of a Notice to Terminate.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
Section I. Invitation to Bid
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Section I. Invitation to Bid
Republic of the Philippines
Department of Education
Bids and Awards Committee V
INVITATION TO BID
FOR THE
Procurement of Human Resources Information System
2026C-ICTS2-002-B5-CB-034
1) The Department of Education (DepEd), through the Information and
Communications Technology Service-Solutions Development Division
(ICTS-SDD), intends to apply the sum of Philippine Pesos Five Hundred
Million and 00/100 (PhP500,000,000.00) only from the DepEd
Computerization Program (DCP) - Strengthening Assistance for
Government Infrastructure and Social Programs (SAGIP) 2025 (Continuing
Fund), being the Approved Budget for the Contract (ABC), to payments
under the contract for the Project, Procurement of Human Resources
Information System, broken down as follows:
LOT ABC
DETAILS DELIVERY SCHEDULE
NO. (in PhP)
Human The HRIS shall be implemented
Resource within three hundred sixty-five
1 lot 500,000,000.00
Information (365) calendar days from receipt
System (HRIS) of the Notice to Proceed
TOTAL 500,000,000.00
Bids received in excess of the ABC shall be automatically rejected at bid
opening.
2) The DepEd, through the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC) V, now invites
bids for the Project, Procurement of Human Resources Information
System, using the Lowest Calculated Responsive Bid (LCRB). Delivery of
the goods is required to be completed within three hundred (365)
calendar days from the receipt of Notice to Proceed (NTP), as specified
in Section VI. Schedule of Requirements and Section VII. Technical
Specifications of this Bidding Documents.
3) Bidders should have completed within a period of ten (10) years from the
date of submission and receipt of bids, contracts similar to the Project.
4) Bidding will be conducted through competitive bidding procedures using a
non-discretionary “pass/fail” criterion as specified in the Implementing
Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Republic Act (RA) No. 12009.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
5) Bidding is restricted to Filipino citizens/sole proprietorships, partnerships,
or organizations with at least sixty percent (60%) interest or outstanding
capital stock belonging to citizens of the Philippines, and to citizens or
organizations of a country the laws or regulations of which grant similar
rights or privileges to Filipino citizens, pursuant to RA No. 5183.
The description of an eligible bidder is contained in the Bidding Documents,
particularly, in Section II. Instructions to Bidders.
6) Interested bidders may obtain further information from DepEd BAC V
Secretariat at Telephone Nos. 8636-6542 or 8633-9343 and inspect the
Bidding Documents at the address given below from Mondays to Fridays,
from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
7) The Bidding Documents can be purchased on or before the deadline for the
submission of bids by either of the following:
a. A complete set of Bidding Documents may be acquired by interested
bidders on July 2, 2026, from the BAC V Secretariat at Room M-
512, 5th Floor, Mabini Building, DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue,
Pasig City, upon accomplishing a Bidder’s Information Sheet (BIS)
(Annex “A”) and payment of the applicable fee for the Bidding
Documents to the DepEd Cashier.
Payment in checks should be made payable to DECS OSEC TRUST.
b. The Bidding Documents fee may also be paid through bank deposit
or bank transfer to the DECS OSEC Trust Fund Account by
signifying their intent to purchase the Bidding Documents through
the email depedcentral.bacsecretariat@deped.gov.ph and
attaching the fully accomplished BIS (Annex “A”). Upon receipt of
the BIS, the BAC V Secretariat will send through email the DECS
OSEC TRUST Fund Account Number and other instructions for
payment. Upon payment, the interested bidder should send the proof
of payment through email on or before the deadline for submission
of bids. Upon receipt of proof of payment, the BAC Secretariat will
send the electronic copy of the bidding documents.
The Bidding Documents may also be downloaded free of charge from the
website of the Philippine Government Electronic Procurement System
(PhilGEPS) and the DepEd BAC Secretariat microsite
https://www.deped.gov.ph/bac-secretariat/, provided that bidders shall
pay the applicable fee for the Bidding Documents and submit the proof of
payment to the BAC V Secretariat not later than the submission of their
bids.
The amount of the Bidding Documents shall be Philippine Pesos Fifty
Thousand and 00/100 (PhP50,000.00)
8) The DepEd BAC V will hold a Pre-Bid Conference on July 9, 2026, at 10:00
A.M. (Philippine Standard Time) at the Office Facility of the former
Systems Division, DepEd Complex, Meralco Ave., Pasig City, which
shall be open to prospective bidders.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
9) Bids must be duly received by the BAC V Secretariat through manual
submission at the office address indicated below, on or before 10:00 A.M.
(Philippine Standard Time) of July 22, 2026, at the Office Facility of
the former Systems Division, DepEd Complex, Meralco Ave., Pasig
City.
Late bids shall not be accepted.
10) All bids must be accompanied by a bid security in any of the acceptable
forms and in the amount stated in ITB Clause 16.1.
11) Bid opening shall be on or before 10:00 A.M. (Philippine Standard Time)
of July 22, 2026, at the Office Facility of the former Systems Division,
DepEd Complex, Meralco Ave., Pasig City. Bids will be opened in the
presence of the bidders’ representatives who choose to attend the activity.
Only two (2) representatives per bidder will be allowed to enter inside the
venue.
For purposes of determining a quorum, members of the BAC V, which
include the Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson, may be present, either in
person or face-to-face through videoconferencing, webcasting, or similar
technology pursuant to Section 42.2, IRR of R.A. No. 12009.
12) The DepEd reserves the right to reject any and all bids, declare a failure of
bidding, or not award the contract at any time prior to contract award in
accordance with Section 70 of R.A. No. 12009, without incurring any
1
liability to the affected bidder or bidders.
13) For further information, please refer to:
JAMES RONALD G. YBIERNAS
Supervising Administrative Officer
BAC Secretariat Division
Procurement Management Service
Department of Education
Room M-512, 5th Floor, Mabini Building
DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue, Pasig City
Telephone Nos. 8636-6542 or 8633-9343
Email address: depedcentral.bacsecretariat@deped.gov.ph
BACSD Microsite: https://www.deped.gov.ph/bac-secretariat/
BACSD Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/ph.gov.deped.procms.bacsd
1
Reservation Clause
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
14) You may visit the following websites:
For downloading of Bidding Documents:
https://notices.philgeps.gov.ph/
https://www.deped.gov.ph/bac-secretariat/
Date of Issuance: July 2, 2026
(SGD.)
DR. JEROME T. BUENVIAJE
Assistant Secretary and Chairperson
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. General ........................................................................................... 15
1) Scope of Bid .................................................................................... 15
2) Source of Funds .............................................................................. 15
3) Corrupt, Fraudulent, Collusive, and Coercive Practices ................... 15
4) Conflict of Interest ........................................................................... 16
5) Eligible Bidders ............................................................................... 18
6) Bidder’s Responsibilities .................................................................. 20
7) Origin of Goods ............................................................................... 22
8) Subcontracts ................................................................................... 22
B. Contents of Bidding Documents ..................................................... 23
9) Pre-Bid Conference .......................................................................... 23
10) Clarification and Amendment of Bidding Documents ....................... 23
C. Preparation of Bids ......................................................................... 24
11) Language of Bids ............................................................................. 24
12) Documents Comprising the Bid: Technical and Financial Components
25
13) Bid Prices ........................................................................................ 26
14) Bid Currencies ................................................................................ 27
15) Bid Validity ..................................................................................... 28
16) Bid Security .................................................................................... 28
17) Format and Signing of Bids ............................................................. 30
18) Sealing and Marking of Bids ............................................................ 31
D. Submission and Opening of Bids ..................................................... 32
19) Deadline for Submission of Bids ...................................................... 32
20) Late Bids ......................................................................................... 32
21) Modification and Withdrawal of Bids ............................................... 32
22) Opening and Preliminary Examination of Bids ................................ 33
E. Evaluation and Comparison of Bids ................................................ 34
23) Process to be Confidential ............................................................... 34
24) Clarification of Bids ......................................................................... 34
25) Domestic Preference ........................................................................ 34
26) Detailed Evaluation and Comparison of Bids ................................... 35
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
27) Post-Qualification ............................................................................ 38
28) Reservation Clause .......................................................................... 39
F. Award of Contract........................................................................... 40
29) Contract Award ............................................................................... 40
30) Signing of the Contract .................................................................... 41
31) Performance Security ...................................................................... 41
32) Notice to Proceed ............................................................................. 43
33) Protest Mechanism .......................................................................... 43
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
A. General
1) Scope of Bid
1.1 The Procuring Entity, named in the BDS invites bids for the Project
with Identification Number which shall be specified in the BDS.
1.2 The Project is composed of number of lots or items as provided in the
BDS, the details of which are described in Section VII. Technical
Specifications.
2) Source of Funds
The Procuring Entity has a budget or has received funds from the Funding
Source named in the BDS, and in the amount indicated in the BDS. It
intends to apply part of the funds received for this Project to cover eligible
payments under the contract.
3) Corrupt, Fraudulent, Collusive, and Coercive Practices
3.1 Unless otherwise specified in the BDS, the Procuring Entity, as well
as the Bidders and Suppliers, shall observe the highest standard of
ethics during the procurement and execution of the contract. In
pursuance of this policy, the Procuring Entity:
a) defines, for purposes of this provision, the following terms
under existing laws, rules, and regulations:
i) “corrupt practice” means an act by which officials in the
public or private sectors improperly and unlawfully enrich
themselves, others, or induce others to do so, by misusing
the position in which they are placed, and includes the
offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of anything of value
to influence the action of any such official in the
procurement process or in contract execution; entering, on
behalf of the government, into any contract or transaction
manifestly and grossly disadvantageous to the same,
whether or not the public officer profited or will profit
thereby, and similar acts as provided in RA No. 3019.
ii) “fraudulent practice” means a misrepresentation of facts for
purposes of influencing a procurement process or the
execution of a contract to the detriment of the Procuring
Entity, which includes collusive practices among Bidders
(prior to or after bid submission) designed to establish bid
prices at artificial, non-competitive levels and to deprive the
Procuring Entity of the benefits of free and open
competition.
iii) “collusive practices” means a scheme or arrangement
between two or more Bidders, with or without the
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
knowledge of the Procuring Entity, designed to establish bid
prices at artificial, non-competitive levels.
iv) “coercive practices” means harming or threatening to harm,
directly or indirectly, persons, or their property to
influence their participation in a procurement process, or
affect the execution of a contract;
v) “obstructive practice” is
a) deliberately destroying, falsifying, altering or
concealing of evidence material to administrative
proceedings or investigation or making false
statements to investigators in order to materially
impede administrative proceedings or investigation of
the Procuring Entity or any foreign
government/foreign or international financing
institution relative to allegations of a corrupt,
fraudulent, coercive, or collusive practice; and/or
threatening, harassing, or intimidating any party to
prevent the latter from disclosing its knowledge of
matters relevant to the administrative proceedings or
investigation or from pursuing such proceedings or
investigation; or
b) acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the
inspection and audit rights of the Procuring Entity or
any foreign government/foreign or international
financing institution herein.
b) Undertakes to reject a proposal for award upon prima facie
determination that the Bidder recommended for award has
engaged in any of the prohibited practices mentioned in this
Clause for purposes of competing for the contract.
3.2 Further, the Procuring Entity will seek to impose the maximum civil,
administrative, and/or criminal penalties available under applicable
laws on individuals and organizations deemed to be involved in any
of the practices mentioned in ITB Clause 3.1(a).
3.3 Furthermore, the Funding Source and the Procuring Entity reserve
the right to inspect and audit records and accounts of a Bidder or
Supplier in the bidding for and performance of a contract themselves
or through independent auditors as reflected in the GCC Clause 3.
4) Conflict of Interest
4.1 All Bidders found to have conflicting interests shall be disqualified to
participate in the procurement at hand, without prejudice to the
imposition of appropriate administrative, civil, and criminal
sanctions. A Bidder may be considered to have conflicting interests
with another Bidder in any of the events described in paragraphs (a)
through (c) below and a general conflict of interest in any of the
circumstances set out in paragraphs (d) and (f) below:
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
a) A Bidder has controlling shareholders or beneficial owners in
common with another Bidder;
b) A Bidder receives or has received any direct or indirect subsidy
from any other Bidder;
c) A Bidder has the same legally authorized representative as that
of another Bidder for purposes of this bid;
d) A Bidder has a relationship, directly or through third parties,
that puts them in a position to have access to information about
or influence on the bid of another Bidder or influence the
decisions of the Procuring Entity regarding this bidding
process; This may include a firm or an organization that lends,
or temporarily seconds, its personnel to firms or organizations
that are engaged in consulting services for the preparation
related to procurement for or implementation of the project, if
the personnel would be involved in any capacity on the same
project;
e) A Bidder who participated as a consultant in the preparation of
the design or technical specifications of the Goods and related
services that are the subject of the bid.
f) A Bidder who lends, or temporarily seconds, its personnel to
firms or organizations which are engaged in consulting services
for the preparation related to procurement for or
implementation of the project, if the personnel would be
involved in any capacity on the same project.
4.2 All Bidding Documents shall be accompanied by an omnibus sworn
statement of the Bidder that it is not related, by consanguinity or
affinity up to the third level, to the HoPE, Procurement Agent (if
engaged), the head of the Project Management Office (PMO), the End-
User or Implementing Unit or any members of the Bids and Awards
Committee (BAC), Technical Working Group (TWG), and BAC
Secretariat.
4.3 The Bidder shall also disclose the ultimate beneficial ownership of
an entity. Failure to comply shall be a ground for the automatic
disqualification of the bid in consonance with Section 59 of the IRR.
For this reason, relation to the aforementioned persons within the
third civil degree of consanguinity or affinity shall automatically
disqualify the Bidder from participating in the procurement of
contracts of the Procuring Entity notwithstanding the act of such
persons inhibiting themselves from the procurement process. This
Clause shall apply to the following persons and affiliates:
a) In the case of individuals or sole proprietorships, to the Bidders
and their spouses;
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
b) In the case of partnerships, to the partnership itself and its
partners;
c) In the case of cooperatives, to the cooperative itself and
members of the board of directors, general manager or chief
executive officer;
d) A partnership, joint venture or consortium which is blacklisted
or which has blacklisted member/s or partner/s, as well as a
person or entity who is a member of a blacklisted joint venture
or consortium, are, likewise not allowed to participate in any
government procurement during the period of suspension or
blacklisting; and
e) In the case of corporations, a single stockholder, together with
their relatives up to the third civil degree of consanguinity or
affinity, and their assignees, holding at least twenty percent
(20%) of the shares therein, its chairperson and president, shall
be blacklisted after they have been determined to hold the same
controlling interest in a previously blacklisted corporation or in
two corporations that have been blacklisted; the corporations
of which they are part of shall also be blacklisted.
5) Eligible Bidders
5.1 Only Bids found to be legally, technically, and financially eligible will
be evaluated. For procurement of Goods, the following persons shall
be eligible to participate in this bidding:
a) Duly-licensed Filipino citizens or sole proprietorships;
b) Partnerships duly organized under the laws of the Philippines
and of which at least sixty percent (60%) of the interest belongs
to citizens of the Philippines;
c) Corporations duly organized under the laws of the Philippines,
and of which at least sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding
capital stock belongs to citizens of the Philippines;
d) Cooperatives duly organized under the laws of the Philippines;
and
e) Persons or entities forming themselves into a Joint Venture
(JV), i.e., a group of two (2) or more persons or entities that
intend to be jointly and severally responsible or liable for a
particular contract: Provided, however, that Filipino ownership
or interest of the JV concerned shall be at least sixty percent
(60%). For this purpose, Filipino ownership or interest shall be
based on the contributions of each of the members of the joint
venture as specified in their Joint Venture Agreement (JVA);
Provided, further, that the primary purpose of each member of
the JV must be similar to or related with the requirements of
the project to be bid out.
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
5.2 Foreign Bidders may be eligible to participate when any of the
following circumstances exist, as specified in the BDS:
a) When provided for under any treaty or international or
executive agreement as provided in Section 4 of the IRR;
b) When the foreign supplier is a citizen, corporation, or
association of a country, the laws or regulations of which grant
reciprocal rights or privileges to citizens, corporations, or
associations of the Philippines;
c) When the Goods sought to be procured are not available from
local suppliers; or
d) When there is a need to prevent situations that defeat
competition or restrain trade.
5.3 GOCCs may be eligible to participate only if they can establish that
they (a) are legally and financially autonomous, (b) operate under
commercial law, and (c) are not attached agencies of the Procuring
Entity.
5.4 The Bidder must have completed, within a period of ten (10) years
from the submission of the bid, unless a shorter period is indicated
in the Invitation to Bid and BDS, a Single Largest Completed
Contract (SLCC) that is similar to the procurement project to be bid,
and whose value must be equivalent to at least fifty percent (50%) of
the ABC, adjusted to current prices using the Philippine Statistics
Authority (PSA) consumer price indices.
5.5 If the Procuring Entity determines that it is necessary to adopt a
different SLCC requirement to ensure broader Bidder participation
while establishing their technical capacity, it may allow Bidders to
present a combination of contracts completed within the same
period, provided their total value is at least fifty percent (50%) of the
ABC, thus:
a) The Bidder should have completed at least one (1) similar
contract amounting to at least 25% of the ABC; and
b) The Bidder should have completed other contracts, whether
similar or not, with an aggregate amount of at least 25% of the
ABC.
For this purpose, the Procuring Entity may clarify in the BDS the
definition or description of what it considers to be a similar project,
which must be germane to the kind, class, or genus of goods or
services to be procured, guided by the principle of proportionality
and fit-for-purpose approach.
5.6 The Bidder must submit a computation of its Net Financial
Contracting Capacity (NFCC), which must be at least equal to the
ABC to be bid, calculated as follows:
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
NFCC = [(Current assets minus current liabilities) (15)] minus the
value of all outstanding or uncompleted portions of the projects
under ongoing contracts, including awarded contracts yet to be
started coinciding with the contract to be bid.
The values of the domestic Bidder’s current assets and current
liabilities shall be based on the latest Audited Financial Statements
(AFS) submitted to the BIR not earlier than two (2) years prior to date
of bid submission.
For purposes of computing the foreign Bidders’ NFCC, the value of
the current assets and current liabilities shall be based on their
latest AFS prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards.
If the Bidder opts to submit a committed Line of Credit, it must be at
least equal to ten percent (10%) of the ABC to be bid. Provided that,
if issued by a foreign bank, it shall be confirmed or authenticated by
a local bank.
6) Bidder’s Responsibilities
6.1 The Bidder or its duly authorized representative shall submit an
omnibus sworn statement, in the form prescribed in Section VIII.
Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms, as required in ITB
Clause 12.1(viii).
6.2 Before submitting their bids, the Bidder is deemed to be
knowledgeable with all existing laws, decrees, ordinances, acts and
regulations of the Philippines which may affect this Project in any
way.
6.3 The Bidder undertook the following responsibilities:
a) Took steps to carefully examine and ensure full understanding
and comprehension of the Bidding Documents, its
requirements, clauses, and provisions;
b) Acknowledged all conditions, local, or otherwise, affecting the
implementation of the contract;
c) Made an estimate of the facilities available and needed for the
contract to be bid, if any;
d) Complied with the responsibility to inquire, or secure the
Supplemental Bid Bulletin(s) as provided under ITB Clause
10.4;
e) Ensured that it is not “blacklisted” or barred from bidding by
the Government of the Philippines (GoP) or any of its agencies,
offices, corporations, or LGUs, including foreign government, or
foreign or international financing institutions whose
blacklisting rules have been recognized by the GPPB; by itself
20

===== PAGE 21 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
or by reason of its relation, membership, association, affiliation,
or controlling interest with another blacklisted person or entity;
f) Ensured that each of the documents submitted in satisfaction
with the bidding requirements is an authentic copy of the
original, complete, and that all statements and information
provided therein are true and correct;
g) Authorized the HoPE or its duly authorized representative/s to
verify all the documents submitted;
h) Ensured that the signatory is the duly authorized
representative of the Bidder, and granted full power and
authority to do, execute, and perform any and all acts
necessary to participate, submit the bid, to sign, and execute
the ensuing contract, accompanied by the duly-notarized
Special Power of Attorney, Board, or Partnership Resolution, or
Secretary’s Certificate, whichever is applicable;
i) Complied with the disclosure provision under Section 81 and
82 of RA No. 12009 and its IRR, in relation to other provisions
of RA 3019;
j) Complied with existing labor laws and standards, in the case of
procurement of services. Moreover, the Bidder undertakes to:
i) Ensure the entitlement of workers to wages, hours of
work, safety and health and other prevailing conditions of
work as established by national laws, rules and
regulations; or Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA); or
arbitration award, if and when applicable.
In case there is a finding by the Procuring Entity or the
Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) of
underpayment or non-payment of workers’ wages and
wage-related benefits, the Bidder agrees that the
performance security or portion of the contract amount
shall be withheld in favor of the complaining workers
pursuant to appropriate provisions of RA No. 12009,
without prejudice to the institution of appropriate actions
under the Labor Code, as amended, and other social
legislations.
ii) Comply with Occupational Safety and Health Standards
(OSHS) and correct deficiencies, if any.
In case of imminent danger, injury, or death of the worker,
the Bidder undertakes to suspend contract
implementation pending clearance to resume from the
DOLE Regional Office, in compliance with the Work
Stoppage Order; and
iii) Inform the workers of their conditions of work, labor
clauses under the contract specifying wages, hours of
21

===== PAGE 22 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
work, and other benefits under prevailing national laws,
rules and regulations; or CBA; or arbitration award, if and
when applicable, through posting in two (2) conspicuous
places in the establishment’s premises.
k) Ensured that it did not give or pay, directly or indirectly, any
commission, amount, fee, or any form of consideration,
pecuniary or otherwise, to any person or official, personnel, or
representative of the government in relation to any
procurement project or activity.
l) Examined all instructions, forms, terms, and specifications in
the Bidding Documents.
m) Determined and complied with all matters pertaining to the
contract to be bid, including but not limited to: (i) the location
and the nature of this Project; (ii) climatic conditions; (iii)
transportation facilities; and (iv) other factors that may affect
the cost, duration, and execution or implementation of this
Project.
n) Ensured that all information in the Bidding Documents,
including bid or supplemental bid bulletin/s issued, are correct
and consistent. The Procuring Entity shall not assume any
responsibility regarding erroneous interpretations or
conclusions by the prospective or eligible Bidder out of the data
furnished by the Procuring Entity.
Failure to observe any of the above responsibilities shall be at the
risk of the Bidder concerned.
6.4 Further, the Bidder shall bear all costs associated with the
preparation and submission of its Bid, and the Procuring Entity shall
in no case be responsible or liable for those costs, regardless of the
conduct or outcome of the bidding process.
In case of failure of bidding, the Bidding Documents fee may be
applied in the re-bidding for the same Project.
6.5 Furthermore, the Bidder should be aware that the Procuring Entity
will accept bids only from those that have paid the applicable fee for
the Bidding Documents at the office indicated in the Invitation to
Bid.
7) Origin of Goods
Unless otherwise indicated in the BDS, there is no restriction on the origin
of Goods other than those prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
(UN) Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the UN.
8) Subcontracts
8.1 Unless otherwise specified in the BDS, the Bidder may subcontract
portions of the Goods to an extent as may be approved by the HoPE
22

===== PAGE 23 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
and as stated in the BDS. However, the subcontracted portion shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%), or a different percentage of the
ABC, on a per project basis, as approved by the GPPB.
8.2 Subcontracting of any portion of this Project shall not relieve the
Bidder from any liability or obligation that may arise from the
contract.
8.3 Subcontractors must meet the eligibility criteria and submit the
same eligibility documents as the general contractor. Failure of a
subcontractor to meet the eligibility criteria does not affect the
eligibility of the general contractor for the Project. In such case, the
portion intended to be subcontracted to the ineligible subcontractor
shall be assumed by the general contractor.
8.4 Subcontracting arrangement, if allowed, including the time of
submission of the eligibility documents of the subcontractor, shall
be disclosed in the BDS.
B. Contents of Bidding Documents
9) Pre-Bid Conference
9.1 If so specified in the BDS, a pre-bid conference shall be held either
at the Procuring Entity’s physical address and/or online through
videoconferencing, webcasting, or similar technology, or a
combination thereof, on the date indicated therein, to clarify and
address the Bidders’ questions on the technical and financial
components of this Project.
9.2 The pre-bid conference shall be held at least twelve (12) calendar
days before the deadline for the submission and receipt of bids, but
not earlier than seven (7) calendar days from the posting of the
Invitation to Bid and other bidding documents in the PhilGEPS.
9.3 Bidders are highly encouraged to attend the pre-bid conference to
fully understand the Procuring Entity’s requirements. While non-
attendance of the Bidder will in no way prejudice its bid. The Bidder
is deemed to know any changes and/or amendments to the Bidding
Documents, as may be provided in the Supplemental Bid Bulletin.
The proceedings of the pre-bid conference shall be recorded, and the
corresponding minutes shall be prepared not later than five (5)
calendar days after the pre-bid conference. The minutes shall be
made available to prospective Bidders not later than five (5) days
upon written request.
9.4 Decisions of the BAC amending any provision of the Bidding
Documents shall be issued in writing through a Supplemental Bid
Bulletin at least seven (7) calendar days before the deadline for the
submission and receipt of bids.
10) Clarification and Amendment of Bidding Documents
23

===== PAGE 24 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
10.1 Prospective Bidders may request for clarification on and/or
interpretation of any part of the Bidding Documents. Such request
must be in writing and submitted to the BAC of the Procuring Entity
at the address or electronic mail indicated in the BDS or through the
electronic bidding facility of PhilGEPS, as may be applicable, at least
ten (10) calendar days before the deadline set for the submission and
receipt of Bids.
10.2 The BAC shall respond to the said request by issuing a Supplemental
Bid Bulletin duly signed by the BAC Chairperson. It shall be made
available to all those who have properly secured the Bidding
Documents, at least seven (7) calendar days before the deadline for
the submission and receipt of Bids.
10.3 Supplemental Bid Bulletins may also be issued upon the Procuring
Entity’s initiative for purposes of clarifying or modifying any
provision of the Bidding Documents not later than seven (7) calendar
days before the deadline for submission and receipt of Bids. Any
modification to the Bidding Documents shall be identified as an
amendment.
10.4 Any Supplemental Bid Bulletin issued by the BAC shall also be
posted in the PhilGEPS, in any conspicuous place in the premises of
the Procuring Entity, and on the website or social media platforms of
the Procuring Entity, if available, or such other channels as may be
authorized by the GPPB. It shall be the responsibility of all
prospective Bidders, including those who have properly secured the
Bidding Documents, to inquire and secure Supplemental Bid
Bulletins that may be issued by the BAC. However, Bidders who have
submitted bids before the issuance of the Supplemental Bid Bulletin
must be accordingly informed by the BAC and be allowed to modify
or withdraw their bids prior to the deadline for the submission and
receipt of bids in accordance with ITB Clause 21.
C. Preparation of Bids
11) Language of Bids
The eligibility requirements or statements, the bids, and all other
documents to be submitted to the BAC must be in English. If the eligibility
requirements or statements, the bids, and all other documents submitted
to the BAC are in foreign language other than English, it must be
accompanied by a translation of the documents in English. The
documents shall be translated by the relevant foreign government agency,
the foreign government agency authorized to translate documents, or a
registered translator in the foreign Bidder’s country. The Bidder shall
cause the authentication of the translated documents and shall be
authenticated by the appropriate Philippine foreign service establishment
or post or the equivalent office having jurisdiction over the foreign Bidder’s
affairs in the Philippines. The English translation shall govern, for
purposes of interpretation of the bid.
24

===== PAGE 25 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
However, for Contracting Parties to the Apostille Convention, the
documents shall be authenticated through an apostille by the Competent
Authority, as defined in Section 20.9.2 of [the] IRR, except for countries
identified by the DFA that will still require legalization (red ribbon) by the
relevant Embassy or Consulate.
12) Documents Comprising the Bid: Technical and Financial Components
12.1 The first bid envelope shall contain the following technical
documents, including the eligibility documents:
i) PhilGEPS Certificate of Registration (Platinum Membership);
ii) Statement of SLCC;
iii) NFCC Computation or committed Line of Credit (LoC);
iv) Statement of all its ongoing government and private contracts,
including contracts awarded but not yet started, if any, whether
similar or not similar in nature and complexity to the contract
to be bid;
v) [if applicable] JVA) or in the absence of a JVA, duly notarized
statements from all potential JV partners stating that they will
enter into and abide by the provisions of the JVA in the event
that the bid is successful;
vi) Bid Security in the prescribed form and amount in accordance
with ITB Clause 16, and validity period under ITB Clause 15;
vii) Technical Specifications, which may include production or
delivery schedule, manpower requirements, or after-sales
service or parts, if applicable;
viii) Omnibus Sworn Statement; and
ix) For foreign Bidders claiming eligibility by reason of their
country’s extension of reciprocal rights to Filipinos, a
certification from the relevant government office of their country
stating that Filipinos are allowed to participate in their
government procurement activities for the same item or
product.
12.2 The second bid envelope shall contain the following financial
documents:
a) Bid Form which includes the Bid price;
b) Price Schedules in accordance with ITB Clause 13.1; and
c) [if applicable] Certificate of Domestic Preference, in accordance
with ITB Clause 25.
25

===== PAGE 26 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
12.3 Whenever necessary, modifications may be made to the foregoing
components specifically for major and specialized procurement to
suit the particular needs of the Procuring Entity, subject to the
approval of the GPPB.
12.4 All bids that exceed the ABC shall not be accepted, unless otherwise
indicated in the BDS. For foreign-funded procurement, the ABC shall
be applied as the ceiling to bid prices provided the following
conditions are met:
a) Bidding Documents are obtainable free of charge on a freely
accessible website. If payment of Bidding Documents is
required by the Procuring Entity, payment could be made upon
the submission of bids.
b) The Procuring Entity has procedures in place to ensure that the
ABC is based on recent estimates made by the responsible unit
of the Procuring Entity and that the estimates reflect the
quality, supervision and risk, and inflationary factors, as well
as prevailing market prices, associated with the types of works
or goods to be procured.
c) The Procuring Entity has trained cost estimators in estimating
prices and analyzing bid variances.
d) The Procuring Entity has established a system to monitor and
report bid prices relative to ABC and engineer’s/procuring
entity’s estimate.
e) The Procuring Entity has established a monitoring and
evaluation system for contract implementation to provide
feedback on actual total costs of goods and works.
However, the GoP and the foreign government, or foreign or
international financing institutions may agree to waive the
foregoing conditions.
13) Bid Prices
13.1 The Bidder shall accomplish the Price Schedule Form as prescribed
by the Procuring Entity, which may include the following details:
a) For Goods offered from within the Philippines:
i) The price of the Goods quoted EXW (ex works, ex factory,
ex warehouse, ex showroom, or off-the-shelf, as
applicable);
ii) The cost of all customs duties and sales and other taxes
already paid or payable;
iii) The cost of transportation, insurance, and other costs
incidental to delivery of the Goods to their final
destination; and
26

===== PAGE 27 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
iv) The price of other (incidental) services, if any, listed in the
BDS.
b) For Goods offered from abroad:
i) Unless otherwise stated in the BDS, the price of the Goods
shall be quoted Delivery Duty Paid (DDP) with the place of
destination in the Philippines as specified in the BDS. In
quoting the price, the Bidder shall be free to use
transportation through carriers registered in any eligible
country. Similarly, the Bidder may obtain insurance
services from any eligible source country.
ii) The price of other (incidental) services, if any, listed in the
BDS.
c) For Services, based on the form which may be prescribed by the
Procuring Entity, in accordance with existing laws, rules and
regulations.
13.2 The Bidder shall accomplish the appropriate Price Schedule included
herein, stating the unit prices, total price per item, the total amount
and the expected countries of origin of the Goods to be supplied
under this Project. The Bidder shall fill in rates and prices for all
items of the Goods described in the Price Schedule, which shall be
presented and computed using up to two (2) decimal places, unless
otherwise indicated in the BDS.
13.3 If the Instructions to Bidders specifically allow partial bids, bids not
addressing or providing all of the required items in the Bidding
Documents including, where applicable, the Price Schedule, shall be
considered non-responsive and shall be automatically disqualified.
However, when no price or a zero (0) or a dash (-) is indicated in a
required item in the bid form, the same shall be construed that it is
being offered for free to the Government, except those required by
law or regulations to be provided for.
The terms Ex Works (EXW), Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF), Cost
and Insurance Paid to (CIP), (DDP), and other trade terms used to
describe the obligations of the parties, shall be governed by the rules
prescribed in the current edition of the International Commercial
Terms (INCOTERMS) published by the International Chamber of
Commerce, Paris.
13.4 Prices quoted by the Bidder shall be fixed during the Bidder’s
performance of the contract and not subject to variation or price
escalation on any account. A bid submitted with an adjustable price
quotation shall be treated as non-responsive and shall be rejected.
14) Bid Currencies
14.1 Prices shall be quoted in the following currencies:
27

===== PAGE 28 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
a) For Goods that the Bidder will supply from within the
Philippines, the prices shall be quoted in Philippine Peso.
b) For Goods that the Bidder will supply from outside the
Philippines, the prices may be quoted in the local or tradeable
currency/ies accepted by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP),
as stated in the BDS. However, for purposes of bid evaluation,
bids denominated in foreign currencies shall be converted to
Philippine currency based on the exchange rate published in
the BSP Daily Reference Exchange Rate Bulletin on the day of
the bid opening.2
14.2 If so allowed in accordance with ITB Clause 14.1, the Procuring
Entity, for purposes of bid evaluation and comparing the bid prices,
will convert the amounts in various currencies in which the bid price
is expressed to Philippine Peso at the foregoing exchange rates.
14.3 Unless otherwise specified in the BDS, payment of the contract price
shall be made in Philippine Peso.
15) Bid Validity
15.1 Bids shall remain valid for the period specified in the BDS which
shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the
date of the opening of bids.
15.2 Should it become necessary to extend the validity of the bids and the
bid securities beyond one hundred twenty (120) calendar days, the
Procuring Entity concerned shall request in writing all those who
submitted bids for such extension before the expiration date therefor.
Bidders, however, shall have the right to refuse to grant such
extension without forfeiting their Bid Security.
16) Bid Security
16.1 The Bidder shall at its option, submit a Bid Security in the form and
amount as stated in the BDS, which may include the following:
Amount of Bid Security
(Not less than the
Form of Bid Security
required
percentage of the ABC)
a) Cash or cashier’s or manager’s check
issued by a bank.
For biddings conducted by LGUs, the
Two Percent (2%)
Cashier’s or Manager’s check may be
issued by other banks certified by the
BSP as authorized to issue such
financial instrument.
2 RA No. 8183, Act to assure uniform value of Philippine coin and currency
28

===== PAGE 29 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
Amount of Bid Security
(Not less than the
Form of Bid Security
required
percentage of the ABC)
b) Bank draft/guarantee or irrevocable
LoC issued by a bank: Provided,
however, that it shall be confirmed or
authenticated by a local bank, if
issued by a foreign bank.
Five Percent (5%)
For biddings conducted by LGUs,
Bank Draft/Guarantee, or Irrevocable
Letter of Credit may be issued by
other banks certified by the BSP as
authorized to issue such financial
instrument.
c) Surety bond callable upon demand
issued by a surety or insurance
company duly certified by the Five Percent (5%)
Insurance Commission as
authorized to issue such security.
2. d) Bid Securing Declaration Not Applicable
The Bid Security shall be denominated in Philippine Peso and posted
in favor of the Procuring Entity.
16.2 The Bid Security should be valid for the period specified in the BDS.
Any bid not accompanied by an acceptable Bid Security shall be
considered as non-responsive and rejected by the Procuring Entity.
16.3 In no case shall the Bid Security be returned later than the expiration
of the bid validity period indicated in the BDS, unless it has been
extended. In case the Bidder is required to extend its bid validity,
the Bidder may, at its discretion, substitute a Bid Securing
Declaration for the extended period as a replacement of its Bid
Security; Provided, that the option to substitute is indicated in the
BDS.
16.4 Upon signing and execution of the contract pursuant to ITB Clause
30, and the posting of the performance security pursuant to ITB
Clause 31, the Bid Security of the successful Bidder will be
discharged, but in no case later than its validity period as indicated
in the ITB Clause 16.2.
16.5 The Bid Security may be forfeited based on any of the following
grounds, as provided under Rule VIII, X, XI, and XXI of the IRR.
a) if a Bidder:
i) Withdraws its bid during the period of bid validity
specified in ITB Clause 15;
29

===== PAGE 30 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
ii) Does not accept the correction of errors pursuant to ITB
Clause 26.5(b) (arithmetical error);
iii) Has a finding against the veracity of any of the documents
submitted as stated in ITB Clause 27.2;
iv) Submits eligibility requirements containing false
information or falsified documents;
v) Submits bids that contain false information or falsified
documents, or the concealment of such information in the
bids to influence the outcome of eligibility screening or any
other stage of the public bidding;
vi) Allows the use of one’s name, or uses the name of another
for purposes of public bidding;
vii) Refuses to accept an award or enter into contract with the
Government without justifiable cause, after the Bidder
had been adjudged as having submitted the Lowest
Calculated Responsive Bid (LCRB), Most Economically
Advantageous Responsive Bid (MEARB), or Most
Advantageous Responsive Bid (MARB);
viii) Refuses or fails to post the required performance security
within the prescribed time;
ix) Refuses to clarify or validate in writing its bid during post-
qualification within a period of seven (7) calendar days
from receipt of the request for clarification;
x) Has any documented attempt by a Bidder to unduly
influence the outcome of the bidding in its favor; or
xi) Commits other acts that tend to defeat the purpose of the
competitive bidding, Competitive Dialogue, Unsolicited
Offer with Bid Matching and Limited Source Bidding, such
as but not limited to habitually withdrawing from bidding,
submitting late Bids or patently insufficient bid, for at
least three (3) times within a year, except for valid reasons.
b) If a winning Bidder:
i) Fails to sign the contract in accordance with ITB Clause
30;
ii) Fails to furnish performance security in accordance with
ITB Clause 31; or
iii) Fails to enter into joint venture after the bid is declared
successful, in the case of potential JV partners.
17) Format and Signing of Bids
30

===== PAGE 31 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
17.1 Bidders shall submit their bids through their duly authorized
representative using the appropriate forms provided in Section VIII.
Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms on or before the
deadline specified in ITB Clause 19 in two (2) separate sealed bid
envelopes which shall be submitted simultaneously, whether
through manual or online submission. The first shall contain the
technical component of the bid, including the eligibility requirements
under ITB Clause 12, and the second shall contain the financial
component of the bid. This shall also be observed for each lot in the
case of lot procurement.
17.2 Forms as mentioned in ITB Clause 17.1 must be completed without
any alterations to their format. No substitute form shall be accepted.
17.3 Each and every page of the Bid Form, including the Price Schedule,
under Section VIII hereof, shall be signed by the duly authorized
representative/s of the Bidder. Failure to do so shall be a ground for
the rejection of the bid.
17.4 Any insertions, erasures, or overwriting shall be valid only if they are
signed or initialed by the duly authorized representative/s of the
Bidder.
18) Sealing and Marking of Bids
18.1 Bidders shall enclose their technical documents described in ITB
Clause 12 in one sealed envelope marked “TECHNICAL
COMPONENT”, and the financial component in another sealed
envelope marked “FINANCIAL COMPONENT”, sealing them all in an
outer envelope marked “BID”.
18.2 The Bid as indicated in the Bidding Documents shall be typed or
written in ink and shall be signed by the Bidder or its duly authorized
representative/s.
18.3 All envelopes shall:
a) contain the name of the contract to be bid in capital letters;
b) bear the name and address of the Bidder in capital letters;
c) be addressed to the Procuring Entity’s BAC in accordance with
ITB Clause 1.1;
d) bear the specific identification of this bidding process indicated
in the ITB Clause 1.1; and
e) bear a warning “DO NOT OPEN BEFORE…” the date and time
for the opening of bids, in accordance with ITB Clause 19.
18.4 For manually submitted bid envelopes that are not properly sealed
and marked, as required in the Bidding Documents, the same shall
be accepted; Provided, That the Bidder or its duly authorized
representative shall acknowledge such condition of the bid as
31

===== PAGE 32 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
submitted. On the other hand, unsealed or unmarked bid envelopes,
or bids that cannot be opened or corrupted in case of online
submission, shall be rejected.
The BAC shall assume no responsibility for misplaced or lost
contents of the improperly sealed or marked bid, or for its premature
opening.
D. Submission and Opening of Bids
19) Deadline for Submission of Bids
Bids must be received by the Procuring Entity’s BAC at the address
indicated in the Invitation to Bid, or through the e-bidding facility of the
PhilGEPS on or before the date and time indicated in the BDS.
20) Late Bids
Bids, including the eligibility requirements, submitted after the deadline
shall be rejected by the BAC. The BAC shall record in the Minutes of the
Meeting the submission and opening of bids, the Bidder’s name, its
representative, and the time the late bid was submitted.
21) Modification and Withdrawal of Bids
21.1 Bidders may modify their bids before the deadline for the submission
and receipt of bids.
a) For manual submission and receipt of bids, the Bidders shall
not be allowed to retrieve their original bid but shall only be
allowed to submit the bid modification by sending another bid,
equally sealed, properly identified, linked to their original bid,
marked as a “modification,” thereof, and stamped “received” by
the BAC. Bid modifications received after the applicable
deadline shall not be considered and shall be returned to the
Bidder unopened.
b) For online submission of bids, the Bidders shall not be allowed
to retrieve their original Bid, but shall only be allowed to submit
the bid modification, send another Bid equally secured,
properly identified labelled as a “modification” of the one
previously submitted. The time indicated in the latest bid
receipt page generated shall be the official time of submission.
Bids modification submitted after the applicable deadline shall
not be accepted.
21.2 Bidders may withdraw their bids in writing before the deadline for
submission and receipt of bids. Withdrawal of bids after the
applicable deadline shall be subject to appropriate sanctions as
prescribed in the IRR.
Bidders may also express their intention not to participate in the
bidding in writing, which should be received by the BAC before the
deadline for submission and receipt of bids. Bidders that withdraw
32

===== PAGE 33 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
their bids shall no longer be allowed to submit another bid for the
same contract, directly or indirectly.
21.3 No bid may be modified after the deadline for submission and receipt
of bids. Further, no bid may be withdrawn in the interval between
the deadline for submission and receipt of bids, and the expiration
of bid validity specified by the Bidder in the Financial Bid Form.
Withdrawal of bid during this interval shall result in the forfeiture of
the Bidder’s Bid Security pursuant to ITB Clause 16.5, and the
imposition of administrative sanctions as prescribed by RA No.
12009, and without prejudice to the imposition of civil and criminal
sanctions as provided under applicable laws.
21.4 Alternative Bids shall be rejected. For this purpose, Alternative Bid
shall pertain to an offer made by a Bidder in addition or as a
substitute to its original bid, which may be included as part of its
original bid or submitted separately. A bid with options shall likewise
be considered an Alternative Bid regardless of whether said bid
proposal is contained in a single envelope or submitted in two (2) or
more separate bid envelopes.
21.5 Each Bidder shall submit only one Bid, either individually or as a
partner in a JV. Bidder who submits or participates in more than
one bid (other than as a subcontractor if a subcontractor is permitted
to participate in more than one bid) will cause all the proposals with
the Bidder’s participation to be disqualified. This shall be without
prejudice to any applicable criminal, civil, and administrative
penalties that may be imposed upon the persons and entities
concerned.
22) Opening and Preliminary Examination of Bids
22.1 The BAC shall open the bids in public, immediately after the deadline
for submission and receipt of bids, as specified in the BDS. In case
the Bids cannot be opened as scheduled due to justifiable reasons,
the BAC shall take custody of the submitted Bids and reschedule the
opening of Bids on the next working day or at the soonest possible
time, through the issuance of a notice of postponement to be posted
on the PhilGEPS website and the website of the Procuring Entity
concerned.
22.2 The manner of opening of the bids for Goods shall depend on the
award criterion to be adopted as follows:
a) For LCRB and MEARB, the BAC shall open the technical and
financial proposals on the same day; and
b) For MARB, only the technical proposals shall be opened on the
same day while the financial proposals shall remain unopened
and shall be kept securely by the BAC until the specified time
of their opening as indicated in the BDS. Only the financial
33

===== PAGE 34 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
proposals of the Bidders who have met the highest technical
score for Most Advantageous Bid (MAB) shall be opened.
22.3 The Procuring Entity shall prepare the minutes of the proceedings of
the bid opening that shall include, as a minimum: (a) names of
Bidders, their bid price (per lot, if applicable, and/or including
discount, if any), bid security, findings of preliminary examination,
and whether there is a withdrawal or modification; and (b)
attendance sheet. The BAC members shall sign the abstract of bids
as read.
22.4 The Bidders or their duly authorized representatives may attend the
opening of bids. The BAC shall ensure the integrity, security, and
confidentiality of all submitted bids. The Abstract of Bids, as read,
and the minutes of the bid opening shall be made available to the
public, upon written request and payment of a specified fee to recover
the cost of materials.
22.5 To ensure transparency and accurate representation of the bid
submission, the BAC Secretariat, shall notify in writing all Bidders
whose bids it has received through its PhilGEPS-registered physical
address or official e-mail address. The said notice shall be issued
within seven (7) calendar days from the date of the bid opening.
E. Evaluation and Comparison of Bids
23) Process to be Confidential
23.1 Members of the BAC, its staff and personnel, Secretariat, and TWG,
as well as Observers, are prohibited from making or accepting any
communication with any Bidder regarding the evaluation of their
bids until the issuance of the Notice of Award, unless otherwise
allowed in ITB Clause 24.
23.2 Any effort by a Bidder to influence the Procuring Entity in its decision
in respect of bid evaluation, bid comparison or contract award will
result in the rejection of the bid.
24) Clarification of Bids
To assist in the evaluation, comparison, and post-qualification of the bids,
the Procuring Entity may ask in writing any Bidder for a clarification of its
bid. All responses to requests for clarification shall be in writing. Any
clarification submitted by a Bidder in respect to its bid that is not in
response to the request of the Procuring Entity shall not be considered.
25) Domestic Preference
25.1 The Procuring Entity shall give priority and preference to Philippine
products and services. The preference and priority for Philippine
products shall be guaranteed at all levels of the procurement
process, including raw materials, ingredients, supplies, or fixtures.
34

===== PAGE 35 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
25.2 For a period of ten (10) years from the effectivity of RA No. 11981 or
the “Tatak Pinoy (Proudly Filipino) Act,” and for Philippine products
and services in sectors and economic activities covered by the
prevailing Tatak Pinoy Strategy, the Procuring Entity is mandated to
award the contract to the domestic Bidder for Philippine products
and services in sectors and economic activities covered by the
prevailing Tatak Pinoy Strategy (TPS).
Domestic Bidder, for purposes of this provision, refers to any person
or entity offering unmanufactured articles, materials, or supplies
grown or produced in the Philippines, or manufactured articles,
materials, or supplies manufactured or to be manufactured in the
Philippines substantially from articles, materials, or supplies that
are or will be produced or manufactured in the Philippines, as the
case may be.
25.3 After the said ten-year period, the domestic preference shall be
subject to a margin of preference to be determined by the Tatak Pinoy
Council which shall not be lower than fifteen percent (15%).
25.4 For products and services governed by the TPS, the domestic
preference in procurement shall be in accordance with the IRR or
guidelines issued for the Tatak Pinoy Act.
25.5 The Procuring Entity shall award the Project to the domestic Bidder
if the bid is not more than twenty-five percent (25%) in excess of the
lowest foreign bid. The margin of preference provided herein shall be
subject to periodic review and adjustment by the GPPB, as may be
necessary.
25.6 A Domestic Bidder can only claim preference if it secures from the
appropriate agency a certification that the articles forming part of its
bid are substantially composed of articles, materials, or supplies
grown, produced, or manufactured in the Philippines.
25.7 The preference herein established may be waived should any of the
following conditions be present as provided in the BDS:
a) Where domestic production is insufficient or unavailable in the
required commercial quantities;
b) Where the specific or desired quality is not met;
c) Where domestic preference will result in inconsistencies with
the Philippines’ obligations under treaty or international or
executive agreements; or
d) Other analogous circumstances.
26) Detailed Evaluation and Comparison of Bids
26.1 The Procuring Entity’s evaluation of bids shall be based on the bid
price quoted in the Bid Form, which includes the Price Schedule.
35

===== PAGE 36 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
26.2 The Procuring Entity will undertake the detailed evaluation and
comparison of the bids which have passed the opening and
preliminary examination of bids, pursuant to ITB Clause 22, to
determine the Lowest Calculated Bid (LCB), Most Economically
Advantageous Bid (MEAB), and MAB.
26.3 The award criterion shall be determined as follows:
a) For LCB
i) The detailed evaluation of the financial component of the
bids, to establish the correct calculated prices of the bids;
and
ii) The ranking of the total bid prices as so calculated from
the lowest to the highest, where the bid with the lowest
price shall be identified as the LCB.
b) For MEAB, the BAC shall evaluate the quality and price
proposals to determine the Most Economically Advantageous
Bid (MEAB) using the following steps:
i) The quality proposal together with the price proposal shall
be considered in the evaluation of bids. The quality
proposals shall be evaluated first using the criteria in the
BDS. The price proposals of the bids that meet the
minimum quality score shall then be opened.
ii) The price and quality proposals shall be given
corresponding weights with the price proposal given a
minimum weight of fifteen percent (15%) up to a
maximum of forty percent (40%). The weight of the quality
criteria shall be adjusted accordingly such that their total
weight in percent together with the weight given to the
price proposal shall be equal to one hundred percent
(100%).
iii) To further promote green public procurement, the
sustainability of products, or materials with green
specifications shall be given greater weight in the
evaluation of bids. As approved by the BAC, the exact
weights shall be indicated in the BDS. The BAC shall rank
the Bidders in descending order based on the combined
numerical ratings of their quality and price proposals. The
Bidder with the best overall score using the quality-price
ratio shall be referred to as the MEAB.
iv) The HoPE shall approve or disapprove the
recommendations of the BAC within two (2) calendar days
after receipt of the results of the evaluation from the BAC.
c) For MAB
36

===== PAGE 37 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
i) BAC shall evaluate the quality proposals to determine the
MAB using the quality components. The quality
components shall be assessed on the basis of the criteria
with corresponding numerical weights indicated in the
BDS to determine the Bidder with the highest technical
rating.
ii) The second bid envelope of the Bidder obtaining the
highest technical rating shall be opened. If the financial
proposal is equal to or lower than the ABC, the bid shall
be accepted and determined as the MAB; otherwise, the
same shall be rejected and the Bidder will be disqualified.
26.4 In order to eliminate bias in evaluating the quality proposals, it is
recommended that the highest and lowest scores for each Bidder for
each criterion shall not be considered in determining the average
scores of the Bidders, except when the evaluation is conducted in a
collegial manner.
26.5 The BAC shall immediately conduct a detailed evaluation of all bids
using non-discretionary criteria in considering the following:
a) Completeness of the bid. Unless the BDS allows partial bids,
bids not addressing or providing all of the required items in the
BDS, shall be considered non-responsive and, thus,
automatically disqualified.
However, when no price or a zero (0) or a dash (-) is indicated
in a required item in the bid form, the same shall be construed
that it is being offered for free to the Government, except those
required by law or regulations to be provided for; and
b) Arithmetical corrections. The BAC shall apply arithmetical
corrections on computational errors and omissions to enable
proper comparison of all eligible bids. Bid corrections may also
be considered if expressly allowed in the BDS. Any adjustment
shall be calculated in monetary terms to determine the
calculated prices.
26.6 Based on the detailed evaluation of bids, those that comply with the
abovementioned requirements shall be ranked in the ascending
order of their total calculated bid prices, as evaluated and corrected
for computational errors, discounts and other modifications, to
identify the LCB, MEAB, or MAB. Total calculated bid prices, as
evaluated and corrected for computational errors, discounts and
other modifications, which exceed the ABC shall not be considered,
unless otherwise indicated in the BDS.
26.7 The BAC shall evaluate all bids on an equal footing to ensure fair and
competitive bid comparison. For this purpose, all Bidders shall be
required to include in their bids the cost of all taxes, such as, but
not limited to, value added tax (VAT), income tax, local taxes, and
other fiscal levies and duties, whichever is applicable, as itemized in
the bid form and reflected in the detailed estimates. Such bids,
37

===== PAGE 38 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
including said taxes, shall be the basis for bid evaluation and
comparison.
26.8 If so indicated pursuant to ITB Clause 1.2, bids may be submitted
for individual lots or for any combination thereof, provided that all
bids and combinations of bids shall be received by the same deadline
and opened and evaluated simultaneously so as to determine the Bid
or combination of Bids offering the lowest calculated cost to the
Procuring Entity. Bid prices quoted shall correspond to all items
specified for each lot and to all quantities specified for each item of a
lot. Bid Security as required by ITB Clause 16 shall be submitted
for each contract (lot) separately. The basis for evaluation of lots is
specified in BDS Clause 26.5.
26.9 In order to eliminate bias in evaluating the quality proposals, it is
recommended that the highest and lowest scores for each Bidder for
each criterion shall not be considered in determining the average
scores of the Bidders, except when the evaluation is conducted in a
collegial manner.
27) Post-Qualification
27.1 The BAC shall determine to its satisfaction whether the Bidder that
is evaluated as having submitted the LCB, MEAB, or MAB as the
case may be, complies with and is responsive to all the requirements
and conditions specified in ITB Clauses 5, 12.1, and 12.2. The
Bidder, within five (5) calendar days from receipt of notice from the
BAC that it submitted the LCB, MEAB, or MAB shall submit all the
eligibility documents supporting its PhilGEPS Certificate of
Registration (Platinum Membership), its latest income and business
tax returns filed for the preceding quarter which should not be earlier
than two (2) quarters from the date of submission and receipt of bid,
and other appropriate licenses and permits required by law and
stated in the BDS.
27.2 Failure to submit any of the post-qualification requirements on time,
or a finding against the veracity thereof, shall disqualify the Bidder
for award; Provided, That in the event that a finding against the
veracity of any of the documents submitted is made, it shall cause
the forfeiture of the Bid Security.
27.3 The determination shall be based upon an examination of the
documentary evidence of the Bidder’s qualifications submitted
pursuant to ITB Clauses 12.1 and 12.2, as well as other information
as the Procuring Entity deems necessary and appropriate, using a
non-discretionary “pass/fail” criterion, which shall be completed
within a period of twelve (12) calendar days.
27.4 If the BAC determines that the Bidder with the LCB, MEAB, or MAB
fails to meet the post-qualification criteria, it shall immediately notify
the said Bidder in writing of its post-disqualification and the grounds
for such determination.
38

===== PAGE 39 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
27.5 Immediately after the BAC has notified the first Bidder of its post-
disqualification, and notwithstanding any pending request for
reconsideration thereof, the BAC shall initiate and complete the
same post-qualification process on the Bidder with the second LCB,
MEAB, or MAB. If the second Bidder passes the post-qualification
and the request for reconsideration of the first Bidder has been
denied, the second Bidder shall be post-qualified as the Bidder with
the LCB, MEAB, or MAB.
27.6 If the second Bidder, however, fails the post-qualification, the
procedure for post-qualification shall be repeated for the Bidder with
the next LCB, MEAB, or MAB and so on, until the LCRB, MEARB,
MARB, as the case may be, is determined for award, subject to the
procedure of Notice and Execution of Award.
27.7 If the BAC determines that the Bidder with the LCB, MEAB, or MAB
passes all the criteria for post-qualification, it shall declare the said
bid as the LCRB, MEARB, MARB, Single Calculated Responsive Bid
(SCRB), Single Economically Advantageous Responsive Bid (SEARB),
or Single Advantageous Bid (SARB).
27.8 Within a period not exceeding ten (10) calendar days from the
determination and declaration through a resolution by the BAC of
the LCRB, MEARB, MARB, SCRB, SEARB, or SARB, as the case may
be, and the recommendation of the award, the HoPE or its duly
authorized representative shall approve or disapprove the said
recommendation.
27.9 In case of approval, the HoPE or its duly authorized representative
shall immediately issue the Notice of Award to the Bidder with the
LCRB, MEARB, MARB, SCRB, SEARB, or SARB, as the case may be.
In the event that the approving authority shall disapprove the
resolution on the award of the contract, such disapproval shall be
based only on valid, reasonable, and justifiable grounds to be
expressed in writing. A copy of the decision disapproving the
resolution shall be furnished to the BAC and the Bidder.
28) Reservation Clause
28.1 Notwithstanding the eligibility or post-qualification of a Bidder and
without incurring any liability, the HoPE or its duly authorized
representative at any stage of the procurement, reserves the right to
review its qualifications, reject any and all bids, declare a failure of
bidding or not award the contract in the following situations:
a) If it has reasonable grounds to believe that a misrepresentation
has been made by the said Bidder, or that there has been a
change in the Bidder’s capability to undertake the project from
the time it submitted its eligibility requirements.
b) Should such review uncover any misrepresentation made in the
eligibility and bidding requirements, statements or documents,
or any changes in the situation of the Bidder which will
39

===== PAGE 40 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
adversely affect its capability to undertake the Project so that it
no longer meets the prescribed eligibility or bid evaluation
criteria, the Procuring Entity shall consider the said Bidder as
ineligible and disqualify it from participating further in the
bidding process or being awarded the contract.
28.2 Based on any of the following grounds, the Procuring Entity reserves
the right to reject any and all bids, declare a Failure of Bidding at
any time prior to the contract award, or not to award the contract,
without thereby incurring any liability, and make no assurance that
a contract shall be entered into as a result of the bidding:
a) If there is prima facie evidence of collusion between appropriate
public officers or employees of the Procuring Entity, or between
the BAC and any of the Bidders, or if the collusion is between
or among the Bidders themselves, or between a Bidder and a
third party, including any act which restricts, suppresses or
nullifies, or tends to restrict, suppress or nullify competition or
influences or tends to influence the bidding process;
b) If the BAC is found to have failed in complying with the
applicable law or in following the prescribed bidding
procedures; or
c) If there are any justifiable and reasonable ground where the
award of the contract will not redound to the benefit of the
government, in instances where (i) the physical and economic
conditions have significantly changed so as to render the
Project no longer economically, financially, or technically
feasible as determined by the HoPE; (ii) the Project is no longer
necessary as determined by the HoPE; and (iii) the source of
funds for the Project has been withheld or reduced through no
fault of the Procuring Entity.
F. Award of Contract
29) Contract Award
29.1 Subject to ITB Clause 27, the HoPE or its duly authorized
representative shall award the contract to the Bidder whose bid has
been determined to be the LCRB, MEARB, MARB, SCRB, SEARB,
or SARB, as the case may be.
29.2 Prior to the expiration of the period of bid validity, the Procuring
Entity shall notify the successful Bidder in writing that its bid has
been accepted, through a Notice of Award duly received by the
Bidder or its representative personally or sent by registered mail or
electronically, receipt of which must be confirmed in writing within
two (2) days by the Bidder with the LCRB, MEARB, MARB, SCRB,
SEARB, or SARB, as applicable and submitted personally or sent
by registered mail or electronically to the Procuring Entity.
40

===== PAGE 41 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
29.3 Within ten (10) calendar days from receipt by the winning Bidder of
the Notice of Award, the following conditions should be complied
with before the contract may be awarded:
a) Submission of the following documents:
i) Valid JVA, if applicable; or
ii) The SEC Certificate of Registration of the foreign
corporation, if applicable.
b) Posting of the performance security in accordance with ITB
Clause 31; and
c) Signing of the contract as provided in ITB Clause 30.
29.4 At the time of contract award, the Procuring Entity shall not
increase or decrease the quantity of goods originally specified in
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements.
30) Signing of the Contract
30.1 Within ten (10) calendar days from receipt of the Notice of Award,
the winning Bidder shall (i) post the required performance security,
sign and date the contract, and return it to the Procuring Entity.
30.2 The Procuring Entity shall enter into a contract with the successful
Bidder within the same ten (10) calendar day period, provided that
all the documentary requirements are complied with.
30.3 The following documents shall form part of the contract:
a) Contract Agreement;
b) Bidding Documents;
c) Winning Bidder’s bid, including the technical and financial
proposals, and all other documents/statements submitted
(e.g., Bidder’s response to request for clarifications on the bid),
including corrections to the bid, if any, resulting from the
Procuring Entity’s bid evaluation;
d) Performance Security;
e) Notice of Award of Contract; and
f) Other contract documents that may be required by existing
laws and/or specified in the BDS.
31) Performance Security
31.1 To guarantee the faithful performance of its obligations under the
contract, the winning Bidder shall post a performance security prior
41

===== PAGE 42 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
to the signing of the contract. Furthermore, the successful Bidder
shall be required to update the performance security posted before
the issuance of an amendment to order if any.
31.2 Sectors enumerated under Section 76.13 of the IRR may be allowed
to post a Performance Securing Declaration (PSD) as specified in
the BDS.
31.3 The performance security shall be in any form selected by the
Procuring Entity in the amount indicated in the BDS, which shall
not be less than the percentage of the total contract price in
accordance with the following price schedule:
Amount of Performance
Security (Not less than the
Form of Performance Security
Percentage of the Total
Contract Price)
a. Cash or Cashier’s or
Manager’s check issued by a
bank.
For biddings conducted by
LGUs, the Cashier’s or Five percent (5%)
Manager’s check may be
issued by other banks
certified by the BSP as
authorized to issue such
financial instrument.
b. Bank draft or guarantee or
irrevocable Letter of Credit
issued by a local bank. If
issued by a foreign bank, it Five percent (5%)
shall be confirmed or
authenticated by a local
bank.
c. Surety bond callable upon
demand issued by a surety or
insurance company duly Thirty Percent (30%)
certified by the IC as
authorized to issue such
security.
3 Section 76.1 The GPPB, once data is available from relevant agencies, shall maintain a registry of entities belonging to
the following sectors:
a) Farmers, as certified by the Department of Agriculture (DA);
b) Fisherfolk as certified by the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR);
c) Persons with disabilities as certified by the National Council for Disability Affairs (NCDA) pursuant to RA No. 7277,
otherwise known as the Magna Carta for Disabled Persons, as amended;
d) Solo parents as certified by the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD);
e) Microenterprises and social enterprises as certified by the MSMED Council;
f) Startups, Spin-offs, and other forms of entity involved in Science, Technology, and Innovation (DOST), as may be
applicable;
g) Cooperatives duly registered with the CDA pursuant to RA No. 6938, otherwise known as the Cooperative Code
of the Philippines, as amended; and
h) Other relevant sectors as may be determined by the GPPB to ensure inclusivity and diversity in the procurement
process.
42

===== PAGE 43 =====
Section II. Instructions to Bidders
31.4 The performance security shall be denominated in Philippine Peso
and posted in favor of the Procuring Entity, which shall be forfeited
in the event it is established that the winning Bidder is in default
in any of its obligations under the contract.
32) Notice to Proceed
The Procuring Entity shall issue the Notice to Proceed to the winning Bidder
not later than three (3) calendar days from the date of approval of the
contract by the appropriate signatories. All notices called for by the terms
of the contract shall be effective only at the time of receipt thereof by the
successful Bidder.
33) Protest Mechanism
Decisions of the BAC in all stages of procurement may be protested to the
HoPE in accordance with Section 83 of the IRR.
43

===== PAGE 44 =====
Section III. Bid Data Sheet
44

===== PAGE 45 =====
Bid Data Sheet
ITB
Clause
1.1 The Procuring Entity is the Department of Education, through its
Information and Communications Technology Service – Solutions
Development Division (ICTS-SDD).
The Procurement Project title is Procurement of Human Resources
Information System.
The identification number of the Procurement Project is 2026C-
ICTS2-002-B5-CB-034.
1.2 The Project is composed of one (1) Lot. The details of which are
described in Section VII. Technical Specifications.
2 The Funding Source is the General Appropriations Act (GAA) Fiscal
Year (FY) 2025 particularly, the allotment for the DepEd
Computerization Program (DCP) - Strengthening Assistance for
Government Infrastructure and Social Programs (SAGIP) 2025
(Continuing Fund), in the amount of Philippine Pesos Five Hundred
Million and 00/100 (PhP500,000,000.00).
3.1 No further instructions.
5.2 Foreign Bidders, except those falling under ITB Clause 5.2(b), may
not participate in this Project.
5.4 The Bidder must have completed, within a period of ten (10) years
from the submission of the bid, a Single Largest Completed Contract
(SLCC) that is similar to the procurement project to be bid, and whose
value must be equivalent to at least fifty percent (50%) of the ABC,
adjusted to current prices using the Philippine Statistics Authority
(PSA) consumer price indices.
5.5 A similar contract shall refer to: Development, Supply, Delivery,
and Implementation of a Human Resources Information System
(HRIS).
7 No further instructions.
8.1 Subcontracting is not allowed.
8.4 Not Applicable.
9.1 The Procuring Entity will hold a pre-bid conference for this Project on
July 9, 2026, at 10:00 A.M. (Philippine Standard Time) at the
Office Facility of the former Systems Division, DepEd Complex,
Meralco Ave., Pasig City, which shall be open to prospective Bidders.
45

===== PAGE 46 =====
Section III. Bid Data Sheet
ITB
Clause
10.1 The Procuring Entity’s address is:
ASec. Jerome T. Buenviaje
Bids and Awards Committee V
Department of Education
Room M-512, 5th Floor, Mabini Building
DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue, Pasig City
Telephone Numbers:
8636-6542 or 8633-9343
Email address:
depedcentral.bacsecretariat@deped.gov.ph
BACSD Microsite:
https://www.deped.gov.ph/bac-secretariat/
BACSD Facebook Page:
https://www.facebook.com/ph.gov.deped.procms.bacsd
12.4 The ABC is Philippine Pesos Five Hundred Million and 00/100
(PhP500,000,000.00).
Any bid with a financial component exceeding the ABC for each Lot
shall not be accepted.
13.1(a)(iv) No incidental services are required.
13.1(b)(i) Not Applicable.
13.1(b)(ii) Not Applicable.
13.2 No further instructions.
14.1(b) The Bid prices for Goods supplied from outside of the Philippines shall
be quoted in Philippine Peso.
14.3 No further instructions.
15.1 Bids shall remain valid for one hundred twenty (120) calendar days
from the date of the opening of bids.
16.1 The Bid Security shall be in the form of a Bid Securing Declaration, or
any of the following:
FORM AMOUNT
Cash or cashier’s check or 2% of the ABC or
manager’s check issued by a PhP10,000,000.00
bank
46

===== PAGE 47 =====
Section III. Bid Data Sheet
ITB
Clause
Bank draft/guarantee or
irrevocable letter of credit issued
by a bank; Provided, however, 5% of the ABC or
that it shall be confirmed or PhP25,000,000.00
authenticated by a local bank, if
issued by a foreign bank
Surety bond callable upon 5% of the ABC or
demand issued by a surety or PhP25,000,000.00
insurance company duly
certified by the Insurance
Commission as authorized to
issue such security.
If the bidder will choose this
form, the certification issued by
the Insurance Commission shall
be submitted together with the
surety bond.
16.2 The Bid Security shall be valid for one hundred twenty (120) calendar
days from bid opening.
16.3 Substitution of the bid security is not allowed.
18 Bidder shall submit three (3) hard/paper copies per bid component:
one (1) original and two (2) copies; and two (2) USB Flash Drives
containing electronic and/or scanned copies: one (1) Technical
Component and one (1) Financial Component.
Bidders are requested to provide tabs for easy identification of the
documents.
The electronic copy of the Price Schedule shall be both in MS Excel
format (.xlsx) and scanned PDF/A format (.pdf).
When there is any discrepancy between the hard/paper copies and
the copies contained and as presented in the USB Flash Drives, the
hard/paper copies shall prevail.
Bidders shall enclose their original technical documents in a sealed
envelope marked as “ORIGINAL – TECHNICAL COMPONENT”. Two (2)
additional copies thereof shall be similarly sealed in second and third
envelopes marked as “COPY NO. 1 – TECHNICAL COMPONENT” and
“COPY NO. 2 – TECHNICAL COMPONENT”. In addition, a USB Flash
Drive containing electronic and/or scanned copies of the original
technical documents shall be submitted in a fourth similarly sealed
envelope and marked as “USB FLASH DRIVE – TECHNICAL
COMPONENT”. The said four (4) envelopes containing the original, 2
copies, and the USB flash drive shall then be enclosed in one single
envelope marked as “TECHNICAL COMPONENT”.
47

===== PAGE 48 =====
Section III. Bid Data Sheet
ITB
Clause
The original financial documents shall be enclosed another sealed
envelope marked as “ORIGINAL – FINANCIAL COMPONENT". Two (2)
additional copies thereof shall be similarly sealed in second and third
envelopes marked as “COPY NO. 1 – FINANCIAL COMPONENT” and
“COPY NO. 2 – FINANCIAL COMPONENT”. The USB Flash Drive
containing the electronic copies of the original financial documents
shall be submitted in a fourth similarly sealed envelope and marked
as “USB FLASH–DRIVE - FINANCIAL COMPONENT". The said four (4)
envelopes containing the original, 2 copies, and the USB flash drive
shall then be enclosed in one single envelope marked as “FINANCIAL
COMPONENT".
Bidders may opt to submit in advance three (3) hard copies and one
(1) USB Flash Drive containing electronic and/or scanned copies of
documents required under ITB Clause 27.1 and this BDS (Post-
Qualification Documents). This does not disqualify bidders who will
not submit post-qualification documents during bid submission.
Enclose the post-qualification documents in four (4) sealed envelopes,
all marked as "POST-QUALIFICATION DOCUMENTS". The said four
(4) envelopes containing the 3 copies, and the USB flash drive shall
then be enclosed in one single envelope marked as "POST-
QUALIFICATION DOCUMENTS".
All envelopes marked as “TECHNICAL COMPONENT”, “FINANCIAL
COMPONENT”, and "POST-QUALIFICATION DOCUMENTS", if any,
shall be enclosed and/or sealed in an outer envelope marked as “BID”.
To facilitate the receipt and opening of bids, the outer envelope marked
"BID" shall be RED, the inner envelope containing technical
documents shall be BLUE, the inner envelope containing financial
documents shall be GREEN, and the inner envelope containing Post-
Qualification Documents shall be BROWN.
Illustrations are provided in Section VIII. Philippine Bidding
Document Related Forms (See Illustrations 1 and 2).
Bid envelopes that are not properly sealed and marked as required in
the Bidding Documents shall be accepted, provided that the Bidder or
its duly authorized representative shall acknowledge such condition of
the bid as submitted.
The BAC shall assume no responsibility for misplaced or lost contents
of the improperly sealed or marked bid, or for its premature opening.
On the other hand, unsealed or unmarked bid envelopes shall be
rejected.
Due to the current technological difficulties, online submission of bids
is not allowed.
48

===== PAGE 49 =====
Section III. Bid Data Sheet
ITB
Clause
19 The address for the submission of Bids is the Office Facility of the
former Systems Division, DepEd Complex, Meralco Ave., Pasig
City.
The deadline for the submission of Bids is on or before 10:00 A.M.
(Philippine Standard Time) of July 22, 2026.
22.1 The place of the bid opening is the Office Facility of the former
Systems Division, DepEd Complex, Meralco Ave., Pasig City.
The date and time of bid opening is on or before 10:00 A.M.
(Philippine Standard Time) of July 22, 2026.
22.2(b) Not Applicable.
25.7 No further instructions.
26.3 The award criterion to be followed is Lowest Calculated Responsive
Bid.
26.3(b)(i) Not Applicable.
26.3(b)(iii) Not Applicable.
26.3(c)(i) Not Applicable.
26.5(a) Partial bid is not allowed. The goods are grouped in a single lot and
the lot shall not be divided into sub-lots for the purpose of bidding,
evaluation, and contract award.
26.5(b) Bid correction is not allowed.
26.6 No further instructions.
27.1 No additional requirements.
30.3(f) No additional requirements.
31.2 Not Applicable.
31.3 The Performance Security shall be in the form:
Performance Security Form & Amount in PhP
Not less than the Percentage of Contract Price per
Lot REGIONAL lot/item
No. CLUSTER Cash, Cashier's or Manager's
Check, Bank Draft or Guarantee, Surety Bond
Irrevocable Letter of Credit
Human
Resources
1 lot 5% 30%
Information
System
49

===== PAGE 50 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
50

===== PAGE 51 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
Table of Contents
1) General Terms ....................................................................................... 52
2) Corrupt, Fraudulent, Collusive, and Coercive Practices ..................... 52
3) Inspection and Audit by the Funding Source ...................................... 52
4) Governing Law and Language .............................................................. 52
5) Notices ................................................................................................... 52
6) Scope of Contract .................................................................................. 53
7) Subcontracting ...................................................................................... 53
8) Procuring Entity’s Responsibilities ...................................................... 54
9) Prices ..................................................................................................... 54
10) Advance Payment .................................................................................. 54
11) Payment ................................................................................................. 55
12) Taxes and Duties .................................................................................. 56
13) Performance Security ............................................................................ 56
14) Use of Contract Documents and Information ..................................... 57
15) Standards .............................................................................................. 57
16) Inspection and Tests ............................................................................. 57
17) Warranty ................................................................................................ 58
18) Delays in the Supplier’s Performance .................................................. 59
19) Liquidated Damages ............................................................................. 59
20) Settlement of Disputes .......................................................................... 60
21) Liability of the Supplier ........................................................................ 60
22) Termination for Breach of Contract ..................................................... 61
23) Termination Due to Force Majeure ...................................................... 61
24) Termination for Convenience ............................................................... 61
25) Termination for Unlawful Acts ............................................................. 62
26) Procedures for Termination of Contracts ............................................. 62
27) Assignment of Rights ............................................................................ 64
28) Amendment to Order ............................................................................ 64
29) Application ............................................................................................. 64
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract ................................................ 65
51

===== PAGE 52 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
1) General Terms
In this Contract, the following terms shall be interpreted as indicated:
a) “The Procuring Entity” means the organization purchasing the Goods, as
named in the SCC.
b) “The Supplier” means the individual contractor, manufacturer
distributor, or firm supplying/manufacturing the Goods and Services
under this Contract and named in the SCC.
c) The “Funding Source” means the organization named in the SCC.
d) “The Project Site” where applicable, means the place or places named in
the SCC.
2) Corrupt, Fraudulent, Collusive, and Coercive Practices
Unless otherwise provided in the SCC, the Procuring Entity as well as the
Bidders, Contractors, or Suppliers shall observe the highest standard of
ethics during the procurement and execution of this Contract. Further the
Funding Source, as appropriate, will seek to impose the maximum civil,
administrative, and/or criminal penalties available under the applicable law
on individuals and organizations deemed to be involved with any of the
practices mentioned in ITB Clause 3.1(a).
3) Inspection and Audit by the Funding Source
The Supplier shall allow the Funding Source to inspect its accounts and
records related to the performance of its obligations. If the Funding Source
requires a separate audit, it shall appoint its auditor and bear the cost
thereof.
4) Governing Law and Language
4.1 This Contract shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
Republic of the Philippines.
4.2 This Contract has been executed in the English language, which shall
be the binding and controlling language for all matters relating to the
meaning or interpretation of this Contract. All correspondence and
other documents pertaining to this Contract exchanged by the parties
shall be written in English.
5) Notices
5.1 Any notice, request, or consent required or permitted to be given or
made pursuant to this Contract shall be in writing. Any such notice,
request, or consent shall be deemed to have been given or made when
received by the concerned party, either in person or through an
authorized representative of the Party to whom the communication is
addressed, or when sent by registered mail or electronic mail, to such
52

===== PAGE 53 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
Party at the address specified in the SCC, which shall be effective when
delivered and duly received, as may be applicable.
5.2 A Party may change its address upon notice pursuant to the provisions
listed in the SCC.
6) Scope of Contract
6.1 The Goods to be provided shall be as specified in Section VI. Schedule
of Requirements.
6.2 This Contract shall include all such items, although not specifically
mentioned, that can be reasonably inferred as being required for its
completion as if such items were expressly mentioned herein. Any
additional requirements for the completion of this Contract shall be
provided in the SCC.
7) Subcontracting
7.1 For subcontracting arrangements, the following rules shall apply for
both locally-funded projects and projects financed through Official
Development Assistance, except those covered by treaty, or
international, or executive agreements.
a) The subcontracted portion of the contract shall be subject to the
approval of the HoPE and the following conditions:
i) The subcontracted portion shall not exceed twenty percent
(20%) for Goods, or a different percentage on a per project
basis, as approved by the GPPB. The threshold percentages
fixed herein shall be subject to the periodic review and
adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the GPPB;
and
ii) The subcontracted portion shall be limited to components
that are not deemed "significant or material" to the Project,
as determined by the Procuring Entity.
b) Subcontracting arrangement, if allowed, including the time of
submission of the eligibility documents of the subcontractor, shall
be disclosed in the Bidding Documents;
c) Subcontractors must meet the eligibility criteria and submit the
same eligibility documents as the general contractor.
Failure of a subcontractor to meet the eligibility criteria does not
affect the eligibility of the general contractor for the procurement
project. In such case, the portion intended to be subcontracted to
the ineligible subcontractor shall be assumed by the general
contractor;
d) The general contractor shall remain liable for the subcontractor’s
actions, defaults, delays, and negligence;
53

===== PAGE 54 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
e) The general contractor and the subcontractor are obliged to
comply with the provisions of the contract and shall share liability,
jointly and severally, in cases of violation of safety standards or
other labor standards insofar as the subcontracted portion is
concerned; and
f) For purposes of post-qualification in accordance with its objective
and process under the IRR, the value of the entire completed and
accepted Project, including the subcontracted portion, shall be
credited as experience of the general contractor. In the case of the
subcontractor, the following rules shall apply:
i) The subcontractor shall get credit for one hundred percent
(100%) of the value of the subcontracted portion of the
project performed; and
ii) Subcontractors shall be eligible to concessional windows of
GFIs that treat receivables from the government as loan
security; the receivables of subcontractors due from their
general contractor shall similarly be accepted as loan
security by GFIs.
8) Procuring Entity’s Responsibilities
8.1 Whenever the performance of the obligations in this Contract requires
that the Supplier obtain permits, approvals, import, and other licenses
from local public authorities, the Procuring Entity may assist the
Supplier in complying with such requirements in a timely and
expeditious manner.
8.2 The Procuring Entity shall pay all costs involved in the performance of
its responsibilities in accordance with the Scope of Contract.
9) Prices
9.1 For goods and services covered under this Contract, as awarded, all bid
prices shall be deemed fixed and not subject to price escalation during
contract implementation, except as otherwise provided in the
succeeding provisions.
9.2 Prices charged by the Supplier for Goods delivered and/or services
performed under this Contract shall not vary from the prices quoted by
the Supplier in its bid, unless there is a change in price resulting from
Amendment to Order issued in accordance with GCC Clause 28.
10) Advance Payment
10.1 For Goods sourced from within the Philippines, advance payments may
be made as follows:
a) A single advance payment not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
contract amount shall be allowed for contracts entered into by a
Procuring Entity for the following services where the requirement
of down payment is a standard industry practice: 1) hotel and
54

===== PAGE 55 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
restaurant services; 2) use of conference/seminar and exhibit
areas; and 3) lease of office space;
b) Advance payment not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the
contract amount, unless otherwise directed by the President, shall
also be allowed for procurement of goods required to address
contingencies arising from natural or man-made calamities in
areas where a “State of Calamity” has been declared by
appropriate authorities; and
c) Upon submission of an irrevocable Letter of Credit (LoC) or bank
guarantee issued by local bank, advance payment not exceeding
fifteen percent (15%) of the contract amount shall be allowed and
paid to the Supplier within sixty (60) calendar days from the
signing of the contract. The irrevocable LoC or bank guarantee,
which must be for an equivalent amount, shall remain valid until
the goods are delivered, and accompanied by a claim for advance
payment.
10.2 For Goods supplied from abroad, unless otherwise indicated in the
SCC, the terms of payment shall be as follows:
a) Upon Contract Signing: Fifteen Percent (15%) of the Contract Price
shall be paid within sixty (60) days from signing of the Contract
and upon submission of a claim and a bank guarantee for the
equivalent amount valid until the Goods are delivered and in the
form provided in Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document
Related Forms.
b) Upon Delivery: Sixty-five percent (65%) of the Contract Price shall
be paid to the Supplier within sixty (60) days after the date of
receipt of the Goods and upon submission of the documents (i)
through (vi) specified in the SCC provision on Delivery and
Documents.
c) Upon Acceptance: The remaining twenty percent (20%) of the
Contract Price shall be paid to the Supplier within sixty (60) days
after the date of submission of the acceptance and inspection
certificate for the respective delivery issued by the Procuring
Entity’s authorized representative. In the event that no inspection
or acceptance certificate is issued by the Procuring Entity’s
authorized representative within forty-five (45) days of the date
shown on the delivery receipt, the Supplier shall have the right to
claim payment of the remaining twenty percent (20%) subject to
the Procuring Entity’s own verification of the reason(s) for the
failure to issue documents (vii) and (viii) as described in the SCC
provision on Delivery and Documents.
10.3 All progress payments for Goods shall first be charged against the
advance payment until the latter has been fully exhausted.
11) Payment
55

===== PAGE 56 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
11.1 Payments shall be made only upon a certification by the HoPE that the
Goods have been delivered in accordance with the terms of this
Contract and have been duly inspected and accepted. Except with the
prior approval of the President, no payment shall be made for services
not yet rendered or for supplies and materials not yet delivered under
the Contract.
11.2 The Supplier’s request(s) for payment shall be made to the Procuring
Entity in writing, accompanied by an invoice describing, as appropriate,
the Goods delivered and/or Services rendered, and by documents
submitted pursuant to the SCC provision for GCC Clause 6.2, and
upon fulfillment of other obligations stipulated in this Contract;
11.3 Pursuant to GCC Clause 11.2, payments shall be made promptly by
the Procuring Entity after submission of an invoice or claim by the
Supplier. Payments shall be in accordance with the applicable
accounting and auditing laws, rules and regulations.
11.4 Unless otherwise provided in the SCC, all payments to the Supplier
under this Contract shall be in Philippine Peso;
11.5 Unless otherwise provided in the SCC, payments using LoC is allowed.
For this purpose, the amount of provisional sum shall be indicated in
the SCC. All charges for the opening of the LoC and/or incidental
expenses thereto shall be for the account of the Supplier.
12) Taxes and Duties
The Supplier, whether local or foreign, shall be entirely responsible for all the
necessary taxes, stamp duties, license and permit fees, and other such levies
imposed for the completion of this Contract.
13) Performance Security
13.1 Within ten (10) calendar days from receipt of the Notice of Award from
the Procuring Entity, but in no case later than the signing of the
contract by both parties, the successful Bidder shall furnish the
performance security in any the forms prescribed in the ITB Clauses
31.2 and 31.3.
13.2 The performance security posted in favor of the Procuring Entity shall
be forfeited in the event it is established that the winning Bidder is in
default in any of its obligations under the contract.
13.3 The performance security shall remain valid until issuance by the
Procuring Entity of the Certificate of Final Acceptance.
13.4 The performance security may be released by the Procuring Entity and
returned to the Supplier after the issuance of the Certificate of Final
Acceptance, subject to the following conditions:
a) There are no pending claims against the Supplier or the Surety
Company filed by the Procuring Entity;
56

===== PAGE 57 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
b) The Supplier has no pending claims for labor and materials filed
against it; and
c) Other terms specified in the SCC.
13.5 The Procuring Entity shall allow a proportional reduction in the original
performance security in case of a reduction in contract value, provided
that any such reduction is more than ten percent (10%) and that the
aggregate of such reductions is not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
original performance security.
14) Use of Contract Documents and Information
14.1 The Supplier shall not, without the Procuring Entity’s prior written
consent, disclose this Contract or any specification, plan, drawing,
pattern, sample, or information furnished by or on behalf of the
Procuring Entity, except for purposes of performing the obligations
therein. Any such disclosure shall be made in confidence and shall
extend only as far as may be necessary for purposes of such
performance.
14.2 Other than this Contract, any document enumerated in GCC Clause
14.1 shall remain the property of the Procuring Entity. All copies shall
be returned to the Procuring Entity upon completion of the Supplier’s
performance under this Contract, if so required by the Procuring Entity.
15) Standards
The Goods provided under this Contract shall conform to the standards
mentioned in the Section VII. Technical Specifications. When no
applicable standard is mentioned, the Goods shall comply with the latest
authoritative standards appropriate to its country of origin.
16) Inspection and Tests
16.1 The Procuring Entity or its representative shall have the right to inspect
and/or to test the Goods to confirm their conformity to the Contract
specifications at no extra cost to the Procuring Entity, other than that
specified under Item 16.3 below. The SCC and Section VII. Technical
Specifications shall specify what inspections and/or tests the
Procuring Entity requires and where they are to be conducted. The
Procuring Entity shall notify the Supplier in writing, in a timely manner,
of the identity of any representatives retained for these purposes.
16.2 If applicable, the inspections and tests may be conducted on the
premises of the Supplier or its subcontractor(s), at point of delivery,
and/or at the goods’ final destination. If conducted on the premises of
the Supplier or its subcontractor(s), all reasonable facilities and
assistance, including access to drawings and production data, shall be
furnished to the inspectors at no cost to the Procuring Entity. The
Supplier shall provide the Procuring Entity with the results of such
inspections and tests.
57

===== PAGE 58 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
16.3 The Procuring Entity or its designated representative shall be allowed
to attend the tests and/or inspections referred to in this Clause
provided that the Procuring Entity shall bear all of its own costs and
expenses incurred in connection with such attendance including, but
not limited to, all traveling and board and lodging expenses.
16.4 The Procuring Entity shall reject the Goods or any part thereof that fail
any test and/or inspection or do not conform to the specifications. The
Supplier shall either rectify or replace such rejected Goods or parts
thereof or make alterations necessary to meet the specifications at no
cost to the Procuring Entity. Upon giving due notice to the Supplier
pursuant to GCC Clause 5, the test and/or inspection may be repeated
by the Procuring Entity, at no additional cost.
16.5 The Supplier agrees that neither the execution of a test and/or
inspection of the Goods or any part thereof, nor the attendance by the
Procuring Entity or its representative to the said test and/or inspection,
shall release the Supplier from any warranties or other obligations
under this Contract.
17) Warranty
17.1 The Supplier warrants that the Goods supplied under the Contract are
new, unused, of the most recent or current models, and with all recent
improvements in design and materials, except when the technical
specifications required by the Procuring Entity provides otherwise.
17.2 The Supplier further warrants that all Goods supplied under this
Contract shall have no defect, arising from design, materials, or
workmanship or from any act or omission of the Supplier that may
develop under normal use of the supplied Goods in the conditions
prevailing in the country of final destination.
17.3 To ensure correction of manufacturing defects, the Supplier shall be
required to provide a warranty for a minimum period specified in the
SCC. At the option of the Procuring Entity, the obligation for the
warranty shall be covered by:
a) Retention money in an amount equivalent to at least one percent
(1%) but not to exceed five (5%) of every progress payment; or
b) Special bank guarantee equivalent to at least one percent (1%) but
not to exceed five (5%) of the total Contract Price; or
c) Other such amount, if so specified in the SCC.
17.4 The said amounts shall only be released by the Procuring Entity after
the lapse of the warranty period as specified in the SCC, or in case of
Expendable Supplies, after the consumption thereof; Provided,
however, that the Supplies delivered are free from patent and latent
defects and all the conditions imposed under this Contract have been
fully met.
58

===== PAGE 59 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
17.5 The Procuring Entity shall promptly notify the Supplier in writing of any
claims arising under the warranty. Upon receipt of such notice, the
Supplier shall, within the period specified in the SCC, repair or replace
the defective Goods or parts thereof, at the soonest possible time,
without cost to the Procuring Entity.
17.6 If the Supplier, after having been notified on the warranty claim, fails
to remedy the defect(s) within the period specified in GCC Clause 17.5,
the Procuring Entity may proceed to take such remedial action as may
be necessary, at the Supplier’s risk and expense, and without prejudice
to any other rights which the Procuring Entity may have against the
Supplier under the Contract and other applicable laws.
18) Delays in the Supplier’s Performance
18.1 Delivery of the Goods and/or performance of Services shall be made by
the Supplier in accordance with the time schedule prescribed by the
Procuring Entity in Section VI. Schedule of Requirements.
18.2 If at any time during the performance of this Contract, the Supplier
encounters conditions that may impede the timely delivery of the Goods
and/or performance of Services, the Supplier shall promptly notify the
Procuring Entity in writing of the fact of the delay, its likely duration
and its cause(s). As soon as practicable after receipt of the Supplier’s
notice, and upon causes provided for under GCC Clause 23, the
Procuring Entity shall evaluate the situation and, if warranted, extend
the Supplier’s time for performance, in which case the extension shall
be ratified by the parties by amendment of Contract.
18.3 Except as provided under GCC Clause 23, any delay by the Supplier in
the performance of its obligations shall render it liable to the imposition
of liquidated damages pursuant to GCC Clause 19, unless an extension
of time is agreed upon pursuant to GCC Clause 28.
19) Liquidated Damages
19.1 When the Supplier fails to satisfactorily deliver the Goods under the
contract within the specified delivery schedule, inclusive of duly
granted time extensions, if any, the Supplier, manufacturer, or
distributor shall be liable for liquidated damages in an amount equal to
one-tenth (1/10) of one percent (1%) of the cost of the delayed goods
scheduled for delivery for every day of delay until such goods are finally
delivered and accepted by the Procuring Entity.
19.2 The Procuring Entity need not prove that it has incurred actual
damages to be entitled to liquidated damages. Such amount shall be
deducted from any money due, or which may become due the supplier,
manufacturer, or distributor, or collected from any securities or
warranties posted by the supplier, manufacturer, or distributor,
whichever is convenient to the Procuring Entity. In case the total sum
of liquidated damages reaches ten percent (10%) of the total contract
price, the Procuring Entity may rescind the contract and impose
appropriate sanctions over and above the liquidated damages to be
paid.
59

===== PAGE 60 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
19.3 If delays are likely to be incurred beyond its control, the supplier,
manufacturer, or distributor shall promptly notify the Procuring Entity
in writing, providing details of the causes and duration of the expected
delay. The Procuring Entity may, at its discretion, grant a time
extension based on meritorious grounds, with or without the imposition
of liquidated damages.
20) Settlement of Disputes
20.1 Any dispute arising from the implementation of a contract covered by
the Act and the IRR shall primarily be resolved and settled amicably by
mutual consultation or agreement.
20.2 In case of failure to settle dispute amicably, the parties may mutually
agree in writing to resort to other modes of alternative dispute
resolution (ADR) to promote efficiency in the procurement process.
Accordingly, they are encouraged to select the most expeditious mode
of ADR available.
If arbitration is chosen as the ADR method, this shall be incorporated
as a provision in the contract and referred to the Arbitrator specified in
the SCC.
20.3 In case of disagreement or after exhausting the remedies provided in
the preceding Section, the dispute may be submitted to arbitration or
other forms of ADR which includes mediation, conciliation, early
neutral evaluation, mini-trial, or any combination thereof in accordance
with the provisions of RA No. 9285, otherwise known as the “Alternative
Dispute Resolution Act of 2004.”
20.4 Should the Parties fail to resolve their dispute or difference by such
mutual consultation or agreement after thirty (30) days, either the
Procuring Entity or the Supplier may signify its intention to commence
arbitration by giving notice to the other Party, as hereinafter provided,
as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of this matter
may be commenced unless such notice is given.
20.5 Any dispute or difference in respect of which a notice of intention to
commence arbitration has been given in accordance with this Clause
shall be settled by arbitration. Arbitration may be commenced prior to
or after delivery of the Goods under this Contract.
20.6 Notwithstanding any reference to arbitration herein, the Parties shall
continue to perform their respective obligations under the Contract
unless otherwise agreed upon in writing.
21) Liability of the Supplier
21.1 The Supplier’s liability under this Contract shall be as provided by the
laws of the Republic of the Philippines, subject to additional provisions,
if any, set forth in the SCC.
60

===== PAGE 61 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
21.2 Except in cases of criminal negligence or willful misconduct, and in the
case of infringement of patent rights, if applicable, the aggregate liability
of the Supplier to the Procuring Entity shall not exceed the total
Contract Price, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the cost
of repair or replacement of the defective Goods.
22) Termination for Breach of Contract
The Procuring Entity may terminate for breach of contract when the Supplier
fails to deliver or perform any or all of the Goods within the period(s) specified
in the contract, or within any extension thereof granted by the Procuring
Entity, pursuant to a request made by the Supplier prior to the delay, and
such failure amounts to at least ten percent (10%) of the contract price,
consistent with the provision of this IRR on liquidated damages. The
Procuring Entity may likewise impose appropriate sanctions therein.
23) Termination Due to Force Majeure
23.1 For purposes of this Contract, the terms “force majeure” and “fortuitous
event” may be used interchangeably. In this regard, a fortuitous event
or force majeure shall be interpreted to mean as an event which the
Supplier could not have been foreseen, or though foreseen, was
inevitable. It shall not include ordinary unfavorable weather conditions,
and any other causes the effect/s of which could have been avoided
with the exercise of reasonable diligence by the Supplier. Such events
may include, but not limited to, acts of the Procuring Entity in its
sovereign capacity, wars or revolutions, fires, floods, epidemics,
quarantine restrictions, and freight embargoes.
23.2 The Procuring Entity may terminate this Contract and impose
liquidated damages when, as a result of force majeure, the Supplier is
unable to deliver or perform any or all of the Goods, amounting to at
least ten percent (10%) of the Contract Price, for a period of not less
than sixty (60) calendar days, or earlier, as deemed necessary by the
Procuring Entity, after receipt of the written notice from the Procuring
Entity stating that the circumstance of force majeure is deemed to have
ceased.
23.3 The Supplier shall not be subject to forfeiture of its performance
security, payment of liquidated damages, or contract termination due
to force majeure, provided that the Supplier’s delay in performance or
other failure to perform its obligations under this Contract is the result
of a force majeure.
23.4 If a force majeure situation arises, the Supplier shall promptly notify
the Procuring Entity in writing of such condition and the cause thereof.
Unless otherwise directed by the Procuring Entity, the Supplier shall
continue to perform its obligations under the Contract as far as may be
practicable, when not prevented by the force majeure, and shall seek all
reasonable alternative means in the performance of its obligation.
24) Termination for Convenience
61

===== PAGE 62 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
24.1 The Procuring Entity, through a written notice sent to the Supplier, may
terminate this Contract, in whole or in part, at any time, if it has
determined the existence of any of the following conditions that make
contract implementation economically, financially, or technically
impractical or unnecessary:
a) When physical and economic conditions have significantly
changed so as to render the project no longer economically,
financially, or technically feasible, as determined by the HoPE;
b) When the HoPE has determined the existence of conditions that
make project implementation impractical or unnecessary, such
as, but not limited to, fortuitous event/s, changes in laws, and
government policies;
c) When funding for the Project has been withheld or reduced by
higher authorities through no fault of the Procuring Entity; or
d) Any circumstance analogous to the foregoing.
24.2 The Goods that have been performed or are ready to be delivered or
performed within thirty (30) calendar days after the Supplier’s receipt
of Notice to Terminate shall be accepted by the Procuring Entity at the
contract terms and prices thereof. For Goods not yet delivered,
performed and/or ready to be delivered or performed, the Procuring
Entity may elect:
a) To have any portion delivered and/or performed and paid at the
contract terms and prices thereof; or
b) To cancel the remainder and pay to the Supplier an agreed
amount for partially completed and/or performed goods and for
materials and parts previously procured by the Supplier.
25) Termination for Unlawful Acts
25.1 The Procuring Entity may terminate this Contract in case it is
determined prima facie that the Supplier, including any joint venture
partner therein, has engaged, before or during the implementation of
this Contract, in unlawful deeds and behaviors relative to contract
acquisition and implementation. Unlawful acts include, but are not
limited to, the following:
a) Corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and coercive practices as defined in
ITB Clause 3.1;
b) Drawing up or using forged documents;
c) Using adulterated materials, means or methods, or engaging in
production contrary to rules of science or the trade; and
d) Any other act analogous to the foregoing.
26) Procedures for Termination of Contracts
62

===== PAGE 63 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
26.1 The following provisions shall govern the procedures for termination of
this Contract:
a) Verification - Upon receipt of a written report of acts or causes
which may constitute grounds for termination as aforementioned,
or upon its own initiative, the End-User or Implementing Unit
shall, within a period of seven (7) calendar days, verify the
existence of such grounds and cause the execution of a Verified
Report, with all relevant evidence attached.
b) Notice to Terminate - Upon recommendation by the End-User or
Implementing Unit, the HoPE shall terminate contracts only by
written notice to the supplier conveying the termination of the
contract. The notice shall state:
i) That the contract is being terminated for any of the grounds
aforementioned, and a statement of the acts that constitute
the grounds constituting the same;
ii) The extent of termination, whether in whole or in part;
iii) An instruction to the Supplier, to show cause as to why the
contract should not be terminated; and
iv) Special instructions of the Procuring Entity, if any.
The Notice to Terminate shall be accompanied by a copy of the
Verified Report.
c) Show Cause - Within a period of seven (7) calendar days from
receipt of the Notice of Termination, the Supplier shall submit to
the HoPE a verified position paper stating why the contract should
not be terminated. If the Supplier, fails to show cause after the
lapse of the seven (7) day period, either by inaction or by default,
the HoPE shall issue an order terminating the contract.
d) Rescission of Notice of Termination - The Procuring Entity may,
at any time before receipt of the Supplier’s verified position paper,
withdraw the Notice to Terminate if it is determined that certain
items or works subject of the notice had been completed,
delivered, or performed before the Supplier’s receipt of the notice.
e) Decision - Within a non-extendible period of ten (10) calendar
days from receipt of the verified position paper, the HoPE shall
decide whether or not to terminate the contract. It shall serve a a
written notice to the Supplier of its decision and, unless otherwise
provided, the contract is deemed terminated from receipt of the
Supplier of the notice of the decision. The termination shall only
be based on the grounds stated in the Notice to Terminate.
f) Contract Termination Review Committee (CTRC) - The HoPE
may create a committee to assist in the discharge of its functions
under the IRR. All decisions recommended by the CTRC shall be
subject to the approval of the HoPE.
63

===== PAGE 64 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
g) Take-over of Contracts - If a Procuring Entity terminates the
contract due to default, insolvency, or for a cause, it may enter
into a Negotiated Procurement (Take-over of Contracts) pursuant
to Section 35(c) of RA No. 12009.
h) Procuring Entity’s Options in Termination for Convenience in
Contracts for Goods - The Goods that have been performed or
are ready for delivery within thirty (30) calendar days after the
supplier’s receipt of Notice to Terminate shall be accepted by the
Procuring Entity at the contract terms and prices. For Goods not
yet performed or ready for delivery, the Procuring Entity may elect:
i) To have any portion delivered or performed and paid at the
contract terms and prices; or
ii) To cancel the remainder and pay to the supplier an agreed
amount for partially completed or performed goods and for
materials and parts previously procured by the supplier.
27) Assignment of Rights
The Supplier shall not assign its rights or obligations under this Contract, in
whole or in part, except upon prior written consent of the Procuring Entity.
28) Amendment to Order
No variation in or modification of the terms of this Contract shall be made
except by written amendment signed by the parties in accordance with the
provisions on Amendment to Order, subject to applicable laws, rules and
regulations.
29) Application
These General Conditions shall apply to the extent that they are not
suspended by the provisions from other parts of this Contract.
64

===== PAGE 65 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
65

===== PAGE 66 =====
Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
1(a) The Procuring Entity is the Department of Education, through
its Information and Communication Technology Service –
Solutions Development Division (ICTS-SDD).
1(b) The Supplier is [to be inserted at the time of contract award].
1(c) The Funding Source is the General Appropriations Act (GAA)
Fiscal Year (FY) 2025, particularly the allocation for the DepEd
Computerization Program (DCP) - Strengthening Assistance for
Government Infrastructure and Social Programs (SAGIP) 2025
(Continuing Fund), in the amount of Philippine Pesos Five
Hundred Million and 00/100 (PhP500,000,000.00).
1(d) The Project Site is DepEd Central Office, TechZone Building
Malugay St., San Antonio, Makati City.
2 No further instructions.
5.1 The Procuring Entity’s address for Notices is:
ATTY. MARCELINO G. VELOSO III
Assistant Secretary
Office of the Assistant Secretary for ICT
18th Floor TechZone Building Malugay St. San Antonio Makati
Telephone Number: 8633-7256
Email address: oasict@deped.gov.ph
The Supplier’s address for Notices is: [Insert address including,
name of contact, fax and telephone number].
5.2 No further instructions.
6.2 Delivery and Documents
For purposes of this Contract, “EXW,” “FOB,” “FCA,” “CIF,”
“CIP,” “DDP” and other trade terms used to describe the
obligations of the parties shall have the meanings assigned to
them by the current edition of INCOTERMS published by the
International Chamber of Commerce, Paris. The Delivery terms
of this Contract shall be as follows:
The delivery terms applicable to this Contract are delivered to
DepEd Central Office – TechZone Makati City. Risk and title will
pass from the Supplier to the Procuring Entity upon receipt and
final acceptance of the Goods at their final destination.
Delivery of the Goods shall be made by the Supplier in
accordance with the terms specified in Section VI. Schedule
of Requirements. The details of shipping and/or other
documents to be furnished by the Supplier are as follows:
For Goods supplied from within the Philippines:
66

===== PAGE 67 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
Upon delivery of the Goods to the Project Site, the Supplier shall
notify the Procuring Entity and present the following original
documents to the Procuring Entity:
i) Supplier’s invoice showing the goods’ description,
quantity, unit price, and total amount;
ii) Delivery receipt/note, railway receipt, or truck receipt;
iii) Supplier’s factory inspection report;
iv) Manufacturer’s and/or Supplier’s warranty certificate;
v) Certificate of origin (for imported Goods);
vi) Delivery receipt detailing number and description of
items received signed by the authorized receiving
personnel;
vii) Certificate of Acceptance/Inspection Report signed by
the Procuring Entity’s representative at the Project Site;
and
viii) Four copies of the Invoice Receipt for Property signed by
the Procuring Entity’s representative at the Project Site.
For purposes of this Clause the Procuring Entity’s
Representative at the Project Site is Mr. Noel E. Reyes, ICTS-
SDD.
The Contract price for the goods shall include the prices
charged by the Supplier for incidental services and shall not
exceed the prevailing rates charged to other parties by the
Supplier for similar services.
Patent Rights
The Supplier shall indemnify the Procuring Entity against all
third-party claims of infringement of patent, trademark, or
industrial design rights arising from use of the goods or any
part thereof.
7 Subcontracting is not allowed.
10 Advance payment is not allowed.
10.2 Not Applicable.
10.3 Advance payment is not allowed.
11 Schedule of Payment
The milestone payments are tied to accepted, functional, tested,
documented, and deployable deliverables.
DepEd shall not withhold acceptance or payment solely
because the milestone was completed earlier than the stated
window, provided that the milestone deliverables are complete,
67

===== PAGE 68 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
functional, tested, documented, deployed to the agreed
environment, traceable to the TOR or approved backlog, and
accepted by the authorized DepEd Product Owner or process
owner.
If the Service Provider completes a milestone earlier than the
applicable maximum delivery window, it may submit the
milestone deliverables for DepEd review, acceptance, and
payment processing.
Progress Payment
Progress Payment based on fixed milestones below:
Payment processing for any milestone shall commence only
after full completion and formal acceptance of all corresponding
milestone deliverables.
Payments shall be made on a milestone basis and shall be
contingent upon completion, submission, review, and written
acceptance of the required deliverables for the relevant
milestone.
Maximum
Delivery Main
Milestone Payment
Window Deliverable
from NTP
Upon NTP,
M1 not later Mobilization 10%
than Day 30
Project
Inception,
Product Proof,
Not later
M2 Technical 20%
than Day 90
Alignment, and
Implementation
Planning
Not later
Release 1: Core
M3 than Day 15%
HR Foundation
150
Release 2:
Not later Payroll, Leave,
M4 than Day Attendance, 10%
190 and Employee
Self-Service
Release 3:
Strategic
Not later Talent,
M5 than Day Learning, 15%
235 Wellness,
Rewards, and
Succession
68

===== PAGE 69 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
Integrated
Testing,
Security
Not later
Validation,
M6 than Day 10%
Migration
270
Readiness, and
Payroll Parallel
Run
Not later Pilot
than Day Deployment,
300, or Capacity
M7 earlier upon Building, 10%
completion Documentation,
and and SLA
acceptance Readiness
Not earlier
Production
than Day
Rollout, Final
335, not
Handover, SLA
M8 later than 10%
Transition, and
Day 365
Final
from the
Acceptance
NTP
Early completion shall not remove any continuing warranty,
support, documentation, turnover, maintenance, remediation,
or post-deployment obligations required under the TOR or
contract.
Payment Conditions
Payment processing shall not be deferred solely because the
corresponding maximum delivery window has not fully elapsed.
Once a milestone is completed, submitted, reviewed, and
accepted, the Service Provider may bill for the corresponding
milestone payment, subject to submission of complete billing
documents and compliance with applicable budgeting,
accounting, auditing, procurement, and contract rules.
No payment shall be processed based solely on:
1. passage of time;
2. issuance of the NTP;
3. submission of plans without acceptance;
4. presentation of a vanilla or baseline HRIS without
DepEd-specific validation;
5. presentation of prototypes or mockups without working
functionality;
6. deployment without test evidence;
7. configuration without accepted user stories;
69

===== PAGE 70 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
8. unsupported claims of completion without sprint
records, test logs, deployment evidence, documentation,
or Product Owner sign-off.
11.4 No further instructions.
11.5 Payment using Letter of Credit is not allowed.
13.4(c) No further instructions.
16.1 The inspections and tests that will be conducted shall be in
accordance with Section VI. Schedule of Requirements,
including the prescribed milestone deliverables, acceptance
requirements, and Definition of Done.
17.3 Special bank guarantee equivalent to at least one percent (1%)
but not to exceed five (5%) of the total Contract Price.
17.3 (c) Not Applicable.
17.4 Warranty shall be covered by Special bank guarantee
equivalent to at least one percent (1%) but not to exceed five
(5%) of the total Contract Price with validity until the end of
contract period.
17.5 No further instructions.
20.2 Not Applicable.
21.1 No further instructions.
70

===== PAGE 71 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
A. Delivery Schedule
The delivery schedule expressed below stipulates the date of delivery to the project
site.
Lot No. Description Delivery Schedule
The HRIS shall be implemented within three
Human Resources
1 lot hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days
Information System
from receipt of the Notice to Proceed (NTP)
B. Contract Duration
Complete delivery shall be made within the one (1) year contract duration, from
the date of receipt of the Notice to Proceed.
C. Deliverables and Delivery Period
1. Purpose
This document clarifies the deliverables, delivery period, acceptance requirements,
and dependency rules for the Human Resource Information System (HRIS) project.
This clarification does not replace the TOR. It shall be read together with the TOR
provisions on HRIS scope, modules, implementation plan, data governance,
service level agreement, training, documentation, reporting, monitoring, and final
acceptance.
2. Delivery Premise
The HRIS engagement is premised on the Service Provider having an existing,
operational, and configurable HRIS platform or solution with substantially
available modules relevant to DepEd’s requirements.
However, regardless of whether the Service Provider begins from an existing
baseline, standard, or “vanilla” HRIS, the final HRIS delivered to DepEd shall be
fully turned over with all source code, configurations, scripts, templates,
workflows, reports, APIs, database schemas, deployment artifacts,
documentation, and other technical materials necessary for DepEd to operate,
maintain, audit, modify, enhance, migrate, and continue the system.
Accordingly, the Service Provider shall ensure that it has the legal and technical
right to turn over the complete HRIS source code and related technical assets to
DepEd. A proprietary or closed-source baseline shall not be used if it prevents full
71

===== PAGE 72 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
source code turnover, continuity, auditability, maintainability, or DepEd’s
independent operation of the system.
For avoidance of doubt:
1. a product demonstration is not equivalent to implementation;
2. a vanilla HRIS is not equivalent to an accepted DepEd HRIS;
3. staging deployment is not equivalent to production readiness;
4. configuration is not equivalent to user acceptance;
5. payroll readiness requires parallel-run validation;
6. Final acceptance requires full source code turnover, documentation, SLA
transition, and closure of critical defects.
3. Delivery Period and Early Completion
The delivery windows below are maximum target periods counted from NTP. They
shall not be treated as mandatory waiting periods.
4. Delivery Schedule
Maximum Delivery
Milestone Main Deliverable
Window from NTP
Mobilization
Upon NTP, not later
M1 Project Inception, Product Proof, Technical
than Day 30
Alignment, and Implementation Planning
Not later than Day
M2 Release 1: Core HR Foundation
90
Not later than Day Release 2: Payroll, Leave, Attendance, and
M3
150 Employee Self-Service
Not later than Day Release 3: Strategic Talent, Learning,
M4
190 Wellness, Rewards, and Succession
Integrated Testing, Security Validation,
Not later than Day
M5 Migration Readiness, and Payroll Parallel
235
Run
Not later than Day Pilot Deployment, Capacity Building,
M6
270 Documentation, and SLA Readiness
Not later than Day
300, or earlier upon Production Rollout, Final Handover, SLA
M7
completion and Transition
acceptance
72

===== PAGE 73 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
Maximum Delivery
Milestone Main Deliverable
Window from NTP
Not earlier than Day
335, not later than Project Closure, SLA Compliance
M8
Day 365 from the Verification, and Final Acceptance
NTP
The percentages above refer to billing milestones. Any retention money, warranty
security, or substitute security instrument shall be governed by the contract and
applicable procurement, budgeting, accounting, and auditing rules, and shall not
be treated as an additional payment tranche.
5. Milestone Deliverables and Acceptance
M1. Project Inception, Product Proof, Technical Alignment, and Implementation
Planning
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 30 from NTP
M1 shall cover project inception, stakeholder alignment, demonstration of the
baseline HRIS, confirmation of the delivery approach, technical alignment, and
approval of the implementation controls necessary to proceed.
At minimum, M1 shall include:
1. issuance of the NTP or contract effectivity;
2. submission and DepEd acceptance of the required irrevocable standby
letter of credit, bank guarantee, or equivalent security instrument;
3. submission of initial mobilization details, including assigned project
manager, principal technical contact, implementation team roster, and
initial work schedule.
4. signed-off Inception Report;
5. approved Implementation Plan;
6. Agile Team Charter identifying Service Provider and DepEd counterparts;
7. initial Product Backlog covering all HRIS modules;
8. Pre-Built Module Capability Matrix;
9. baseline HRIS product capability demonstration report;
10. fit-gap validation approach;
11. configuration and customization blueprint;
12. development, staging, and production environment plan;
13. initial data migration plan;
14. initial integration and API plan;
15. initial security, privacy, access-control, and audit-log plan;
16. risk register and dependency register;
73

===== PAGE 74 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
17. sprint cadence and reporting protocol;
18. draft acceptance criteria for Release 1.
M1 shall be accepted upon DepEd approval of the inception, product proof,
governance, technical alignment, and implementation planning outputs.
M1 acceptance shall not constitute acceptance of the baseline or vanilla HRIS as
the final DepEd HRIS.
M2. Release 1: Core HR Foundation
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 90 from NTP
M2 shall cover the first accepted HRIS release, prioritizing the foundational
modules and workflows necessary to establish core HR records and recruitment
processes.
At minimum, M2 shall include configured, customized, tested, and documented
Release 1 functionality for:
1. Personnel Information Management;
2. employee 201 file records;
3. Personal Data Sheet-related records;
4. Applicant Portal;
5. Recruitment, Selection, and Placement;
6. Appointment Processing;
7. New Hire Processing;
8. related recruitment, appointment, and personnel reports;
9. role-based access control for Release 1 users;
10. audit logging for Release 1 transactions;
11. initial sample data migration for employee and applicant records;
12. release notes;
13. updated user and administrator guides;
14. Sprint Review Reports;
15. signed-off user stories meeting the Definition of Done;
16. Release 1 test results and defect closure report.
M2 shall be accepted only upon deployment to the agreed staging or approved
release environment, completion of applicable tests, closure of critical defects,
submission of documentation, and written sign-off by the authorized DepEd
Product Owner or process owner.
M3. Release 2: Payroll, Leave, Attendance, and Employee Self-Service
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 150 from NTP
M3 shall cover the second HRIS release, focusing on payroll-related and employee-
facing functions.
74

===== PAGE 75 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
At minimum, M3 shall include configured, customized, tested, and documented
Release 2 functionality for:
1. Payroll and Remittance;
2. General Payroll;
3. Special Payroll;
4. Personnel Voucher-related processing;
5. Leave Management;
6. Attendance Management;
7. Employee Self-Service functions, including payslip access, leave balance
viewing, leave filing, employee requests, and employee record access, as
applicable;
8. payroll computation test results;
9. remittance report templates;
10. leave and attendance rule configuration;
11. API, file exchange, or data synchronization validation, where applicable;
12. payroll parallel-run test plan;
13. updated user and administrator guides;
14. Sprint Review Reports;
15. signed-off user stories meeting the Definition of Done.
M3 shall be accepted upon completion of Release 2 testing, documentation, and
Product Owner or process-owner sign-off.
Full operational reliance on payroll shall still require the accepted payroll parallel-
run accuracy report under M5.
M4. Release 3: Strategic Talent, Learning, Wellness, Rewards, and Succession
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 190 from NTP
M4 shall cover the third HRIS release, focusing on strategic HR, employee
development, and employee welfare modules.
At minimum, M4 shall include configured, customized, tested, and documented
Release 3 functionality for:
1. Performance Management, including SPMS, IPCR, and OPCR;
2. Learning and Development;
3. Rewards and Recognition;
4. Employee Wellness and Welfare;
5. Health Profile;
6. Succession Planning and career progression;
7. related dashboards and reports;
8. privacy controls for sensitive and health-related data;
9. statistical reporting controls for health and wellness data;
10. backlog refinement logs;
75

===== PAGE 76 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
11. updated user and administrator guides;
12. Sprint Review Reports;
13. user story sign-offs by DepEd process owners.
M4 shall be accepted upon completion of Release 3 testing, documentation, and
Product Owner or process-owner sign-off.
Individual-level access to health-related or sensitive data shall be subject to
applicable law, approved roles, access controls, and DepEd data governance
requirements.
M5. Integrated Testing, Security Validation, Migration Readiness, and Payroll
Parallel Run
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 235 from NTP
M5 shall cover integrated validation of the HRIS releases prior to pilot deployment
and phased production rollout.
At minimum, M5 shall include:
1. integrated User Acceptance Testing logs;
2. system integration test results;
3. regression test results;
4. performance or load test results appropriate to the approved
implementation scope;
5. security validation report;
6. access-control validation report;
7. audit-log validation report;
8. data privacy controls validation report or checklist;
9. mock migration report;
10. data reconciliation report;
11. defect register and defect closure report;
12. payroll parallel-run accuracy report;
13. pilot Go/No-Go recommendation signed by authorized DepEd Product
Owners or process owners;
14. updated technical, user, administrator, and operational documentation.
Security validation shall include, at minimum:
1. review of user roles and permissions;
2. validation of privileged access controls;
3. testing of authentication and session controls;
4. verification of audit-log generation and retrieval;
5. review of sensitive data protections;
6. validation of backup and restoration procedures;
7. review of secure configuration settings;
76

===== PAGE 77 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
8. vulnerability scanning or equivalent internal security assessment;
9. remediation tracking for identified findings;
10. documented risk treatment for residual findings accepted by DepEd.
Independent third-party penetration testing shall not be required for milestone
acceptance. Internal security testing, vulnerability assessment, secure code
review, dependency scanning, access-control testing, and remediation of critical
findings shall be sufficient for M5 acceptance.
Payroll shall not be treated as ready for full operational reliance unless the payroll
parallel-run accuracy report has been accepted by authorized DepEd payroll,
finance, and HR process owners.
M6. Pilot Deployment, Capacity Building, Documentation, and SLA Readiness
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 270 from NTP
M6 shall cover pilot deployment, capacity building, operational readiness, and
preparation for production rollout.
At minimum, M6 shall include:
1. pilot deployment report covering agreed Central Office, Regional Office,
Schools Division Office, and school-level users or representatives;
2. production-readiness checklist;
3. training completion report for pilot users, administrators, HR personnel,
ICTS support personnel, and identified trainers;
4. knowledge-transfer materials;
5. updated user manuals;
6. updated administrator guides;
7. updated technical maintenance documentation;
8. training decks, job aids, FAQs, or video tutorials;
9. helpdesk scripts;
10. incident escalation matrix;
11. SLA readiness report;
12. pilot issue register and resolution report;
13. phased rollout plan.
Pilot deployment shall validate:
production readiness;
user access and role assignments;
core HR workflows;
recruitment and appointment workflows;
payroll and leave/attendance readiness, where applicable;
data accuracy;
system performance;
77

===== PAGE 78 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
helpdesk readiness;
training effectiveness;
defect handling and escalation.
Phased production rollout shall proceed only after pilot completion, closure of
critical pilot defects, completion of required training, and approval of the Go/No-
Go recommendation.
M7. Production Rollout, Final Handover, and SLA Transition
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 300 from NTP, or earlier upon
completion and acceptance
M7 shall cover phased production rollout, final handover, operational transition,
and full source code turnover.
At minimum, M7 shall include:
1. production deployment report;
2. phased rollout evidence;
3. final accepted release deliverables for all required modules;
4. final data migration and reconciliation report;
5. final payroll parallel-run accuracy report;
6. final security and access-control validation report;
7. final audit-log validation report;
8. final performance or load test report;
9. final defect closure report;
10. final training completion report;
11. final user manuals;
12. final administrator guides;
13. technical maintenance manuals;
14. operational runbook;
15. as-built system architecture;
16. data dictionary;
17. API documentation;
18. configuration documentation;
19. deployment documentation;
20. backup and restoration procedure;
21. access credentials and administrative account turnover;
22. complete source code turnover;
23. version-controlled repository turnover;
24. database schema and migration scripts;
25. build, deployment, and rollback scripts;
26. environment configuration templates;
27. custom reports, forms, workflow definitions, templates, and rule
configurations;
78

===== PAGE 79 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
28. integration source code, API connectors, middleware, adapters, and data
exchange scripts;
29. test scripts, automated test suites, and test data templates, where
applicable;
30. dependency list, package manifests, libraries, third-party components, and
license inventory;
31. system installation and local development setup guide;
32. System Turnover Report;
33. SLA transition report;
34. warranty and post-deployment support confirmation;
Full source code turnover shall be a condition for payment of M7.
The Service Provider shall turn over the complete, buildable, deployable, and
documented source code for the HRIS, including all modules, customizations,
configurations, integrations, reports, scripts, templates, utilities, and deployment
artifacts required to operate and maintain the system.
The source code turnover shall be made through a DepEd-controlled or DepEd-
accessible version-controlled repository, together with sufficient documentation to
allow DepEd or its authorized technical personnel to build, deploy, inspect,
maintain, modify, and continue the HRIS without dependence on the Service
Provider beyond the contracted support period.
M8. Project Closure, SLA Compliance Verification, and Final Acceptance
Maximum Delivery Window: Not earlier than Day 335, not later than Day 365
from the NTP
M8 shall cover the post-deployment stabilization and SLA compliance monitoring
period following production rollout and final handover under M7
Final acceptance shall not be issued if the source code, repository access,
deployment artifacts, configuration files, database schema, technical
documentation, or administrative credentials necessary for system continuity
remain incomplete or inaccessible.
At minimum, M8 shall include:
1. Final SLA Compliance Report including but not limited to system uptime
logs and availability monitoring records as evidence
2. Final Defect Closure Report
3. Notarized Certificate of Data Return and/or Destruction
4. Certificate of Final Acceptance
79

===== PAGE 80 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
For avoidance of doubt:
1. deployment to a staging or production environment shall not, by itself,
constitute completion;
2. demonstration of a baseline HRIS shall not constitute acceptance of DepEd-
specific requirements;
3. user story completion shall require compliance with the Definition of Done;
4. Product Owner or process-owner sign-off shall be required for each
accepted release;
5. critical defects must be closed before the relevant milestone may be
accepted;
6. high-severity defects must either be closed or covered by a DepEd-approved
remediation plan;
7. documentation must be updated with each release;
8. data privacy, security, access-control, and audit-log requirements must be
validated before pilot and production rollout;
9. payroll shall not be considered ready for full operational reliance unless the
payroll parallel-run accuracy report has been accepted by DepEd;
10. final acceptance shall require completion of turnover, documentation,
access arrangements, warranty transition, and SLA activation.
6. Inspection and Testing Requirements
1. Pre-Delivery Inspection
Pre-Delivery Inspection refers to testing and validation conducted prior to
the formal submission of milestone deliverables to DepEd for acceptance.
2. Post Delivery Inspection
Post-Delivery Inspection refers to testing and validation conducted by
Procuring Entity upon submission of milestone deliverables by the Service
Provider.
Delivery of each milestone under this contract shall be subject to post-delivery
inspection and testing in accordance with the Pre- and Post-Delivery Testing
Parameters attached as Annexes to Section VII – Technical Specifications.
7. Definition of Done
No module, user story, sprint increment, release, configuration item,
customization, integration, report, migration utility, workflow, or milestone shall
be considered complete for acceptance or payment unless it is:
1. traceable to a TOR requirement, approved backlog item, accepted user
story, approved configuration item, or approved change item;
2. configured, customized, integrated, implemented, or otherwise delivered in
the appropriate HRIS environment;
3. deployed to the agreed environment;
80

===== PAGE 81 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
4. tested by the Service Provider;
5. validated through sprint review, system integration testing, UAT, payroll
parallel run, migration test, security validation, or other applicable test
procedure;
6. supported by test evidence, defect records, and deployment evidence;
7. free from unresolved critical supplier-controlled defects;
8. covered by a DepEd-approved remediation plan for any unresolved high-
severity defects;
9. documented in the applicable user, administrator, technical, configuration,
or process guide;
10. integrated with prior accepted increments without material regression;
11. compliant with applicable data privacy, security, audit trail, access-control,
and records requirements;
12. accepted in writing by the authorized DepEd Product Owner or process
owner based on agreed acceptance criteria.
A milestone shall not be deemed incomplete solely because a DepEd-controlled or
third-party dependency remains pending, provided that the Service Provider has
completed the supplier-controlled components and properly documented the
dependency.
Third-party VAPT certification is not part of the Definition of Done unless expressly
required by the contract, procurement documents, or a subsequent written DepEd
directive.
8. Agile Governance and Release Management
The Service Provider shall implement the HRIS through structured releases and
sprint cycles, subject to DepEd governance and acceptance requirements.
At minimum, the Service Provider shall:
1. maintain a Product Backlog covering all required HRIS modules;
2. conduct sprint planning, sprint review, and sprint retrospective activities;
3. submit Sprint Review Reports every two (2) weeks or at another DepEd-
approved cadence;
4. identify completed user stories, pending user stories, defects, risks,
blockers, and dependencies;
5. obtain written sign-off from the authorized DepEd Product Owner or
process owner for accepted user stories;
6. update user guides, administrator guides, and technical documentation
with each release;
7. maintain a consolidated defect register;
8. maintain a backlog refinement log;
9. maintain traceability between TOR requirements, backlog items, test cases,
and accepted deliverables.
81

===== PAGE 82 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
Agile delivery shall not waive the requirement for formal milestone acceptance,
documentation, security validation, data migration validation, payroll parallel run
validation, SLA transition, or final acceptance.
9. Data Migration and Reconciliation Requirements
Data migration shall be treated as a continuous implementation workstream
beginning during project inception and continuing through pilot and production
rollout.
The Service Provider shall submit and maintain:
1. data inventory;
2. source system mapping;
3. data cleansing rules;
4. data migration templates;
5. extraction, transformation, and loading procedures;
6. mock migration reports;
7. exception logs;
8. reconciliation reports;
9. production migration report;
10. final data migration completion report.
At minimum, migration planning shall cover employee master data, PDS records,
employment history, plantilla information, leave balances, salary and payroll-
related data, appointment records, training records, performance records, and
other HR records required for the agreed module rollout.
No production migration shall be accepted without reconciliation reports and
written acceptance by the designated DepEd data owners or process owners.
10. Payroll Parallel Run Requirement
The Payroll and Remittance module shall undergo parallel run testing prior to full
implementation or full operational reliance.
The payroll parallel run shall include:
1. identification of pilot payroll population;
2. loading of payroll-relevant employee, salary, deduction, benefit, tax, and
remittance data;
3. payroll computation using the HRIS;
4. comparison against existing payroll computation or reference payroll
output;
5. variance analysis;
6. correction of configuration, computation, or data errors;
7. issuance of a Payroll Parallel-Run Accuracy Report;
82

===== PAGE 83 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
8. written acceptance by authorized DepEd payroll, finance, and HR process
owners.
Payroll shall not be treated as finally accepted for full operational reliance unless
the parallel-run accuracy report is accepted and all critical payroll defects are
closed.
11. Security, Privacy, and Audit Requirements
Security, privacy, and audit controls shall be implemented throughout the project
and shall not be deferred to final deployment.
The Service Provider shall provide evidence of:
1. role-based access control configuration;
2. privileged access control;
3. audit-log activation and retrieval;
4. user activity logging;
5. transaction history and data-change tracking;
6. encryption or other approved safeguards for sensitive data;
7. secure data transmission;
8. data privacy controls for sensitive personal information and health-related
data;
9. internal vulnerability assessment, vulnerability scanning, configuration
review, or equivalent security validation;
10. remediation or risk acceptance of identified vulnerabilities;
11. breach notification and incident response procedures;
12. backup, restoration, and disaster recovery procedures;
13. compliance with DepEd’s security, privacy, and data governance
requirements.
Pilot deployment and production rollout shall not proceed unless material security
and privacy risks have been closed or formally accepted by DepEd through the
appropriate governance process.
Third-party VAPT certification shall not be required as a standard deliverable.
Where DepEd later determines that independent testing is necessary for a specific
release, module, integration, or production exposure, such requirement shall be
separately directed and scheduled, and shall not be implied from this clarification.
12. Training, Knowledge Transfer, and Documentation
The Service Provider shall provide training and documentation in line with each
release and deployment phase.
Training shall cover, at minimum:
83

===== PAGE 84 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
1. Central Office process owners;
2. Regional Office HR and administrative users;
3. Schools Division Office HR and administrative users;
4. school-level users or designated school HR/admin users, where applicable;
5. ICTS administrators and technical support personnel;
6. helpdesk and support personnel;
7. trainers under the train-the-trainer model;
8. end-users through self-paced guides, videos, FAQs, and job aids.
Documentation shall include, as applicable:
1. user manuals;
2. administrator guides;
3. technical maintenance manuals;
4. operational runbooks;
5. troubleshooting guides;
6. process guides;
7. training decks;
8. video tutorials;
9. data dictionary;
10. API documentation;
11. configuration documentation;
12. as-built system architecture;
13. deployment and environment documentation;
14. backup and restoration documentation;
15. release notes.
Updated guides shall be submitted with each system release. One final manual at
the end of the project shall not be sufficient.
13. Pilot Deployment and Phased Rollout
The HRIS shall not proceed directly from UAT to full nationwide rollout.
The Service Provider shall conduct a pilot deployment covering agreed
representatives from:
1. Central Office;
2. selected Regional Offices;
3. selected Schools Division Offices;
4. selected schools or school-level users, where applicable.
The pilot deployment shall validate:
1. production readiness;
2. user access and role assignments;
3. core HR workflows;
84

===== PAGE 85 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
4. recruitment and appointment workflows;
5. payroll and leave/attendance readiness, where applicable;
6. data accuracy;
7. system performance;
8. helpdesk readiness;
9. training effectiveness;
10. defect handling and escalation.
Phased rollout shall proceed only after pilot completion, closure of critical pilot
defects, completion of required training, and approval of the Go/No-Go
recommendation.
14. Dependency and Non-Supplier Delay Rule
Milestone acceptance and payment shall be based on completion of supplier-
controlled deliverables.
The Service Provider shall not be considered in delay, and milestone payment shall
not be withheld, where non-completion is caused by matters outside the Service
Provider’s reasonable control, including delayed access to DepEd data, delayed
approval of counterpart decisions, delayed availability of third-party systems,
delayed issuance of credentials, delayed confirmation of integration endpoints, or
delayed action by external agencies.
In such cases, the Service Provider shall proceed with unaffected workstreams
and, where appropriate, use interim mechanisms such as:
1. representative data;
2. masked data;
3. synthetic data;
4. sample data;
5. sandbox integrations;
6. mock services;
7. file-based data exchange;
8. configurable placeholders;
9. documented manual workarounds.
The Service Provider shall return to close the pending dependency once the
required DepEd or third-party action is completed.
This rule shall not excuse the Service Provider from completing deliverables that
are within its control.
15. Final Handover and Acceptance
Final acceptance shall require completion and written acceptance of all required
deliverables, including:
85

===== PAGE 86 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
1. accepted release deliverables for all required modules;
2. final production deployment report;
3. final data migration and reconciliation report;
4. final payroll parallel-run accuracy report;
5. final security and access-control validation report;
6. final audit-log validation report;
7. final performance or load test report;
8. final defect closure report;
9. final training completion report;
10. final user and administrator manuals;
11. technical maintenance manuals;
12. operational runbook;
13. as-built system architecture;
14. data dictionary;
15. API documentation;
16. configuration documentation;
17. complete source code turnover;
18. version-controlled repository turnover;
19. database schema and migration scripts;
20. build, deployment, and rollback scripts;
21. environment configuration templates;
22. custom reports, forms, workflow definitions, templates, and rule
configurations;
23. integration source code, API connectors, middleware, adapters, and data
exchange scripts;
24. test scripts, automated test suites, and test data templates, where
applicable;
25. dependency list, package manifests, libraries, third-party components, and
license inventory;
26. system installation and local development setup guide;
27. access credentials and administrative account turnover;
28. System Turnover Report;
29. SLA transition report;
30. warranty and maintenance support confirmation;
31. Signed Certificate of Final Acceptance.
The Service Provider shall turn over all source code and technical assets necessary
for DepEd to operate, maintain, audit, enhance, migrate, and continue the HRIS.
The source code turnover shall include the complete source code of the HRIS
application, including all modules, customizations, configurations, extensions,
integrations, reports, forms, workflow definitions, scripts, database schemas,
migration scripts, deployment scripts, build files, test scripts, and technical
documentation.
The source code shall be turned over in a complete, buildable, deployable, and
version-controlled form. The Service Provider shall provide repository access,
86

===== PAGE 87 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
commit history where available, dependency documentation, environment setup
instructions, and build/deployment procedures.
The Service Provider shall also disclose and document all third-party libraries,
frameworks, packages, services, and dependencies used in the HRIS, including
applicable licenses and any restrictions affecting DepEd’s continued use,
maintenance, modification, or deployment of the system.
A proprietary, closed-source, or restricted component shall not be used if it
prevents DepEd from receiving, inspecting, building, deploying, maintaining,
modifying, or continuing the HRIS source code and system operations after
turnover.
Final acceptance shall not be issued unless DepEd has received and validated the
complete source code, repository access, deployment artifacts, database schema,
technical documentation, administrative credentials, and continuity materials
required under this section.
16. Source Code Ownership, Turnover, and Continuity
All source code, configurations, scripts, database schemas, reports, forms,
templates, workflow definitions, integrations, APIs, deployment artifacts, technical
documentation, and other system materials developed, configured, customized, or
delivered for the HRIS shall be turned over to DepEd.
The Service Provider shall ensure that all such materials are complete, readable,
organized, documented, buildable, deployable, and sufficient for DepEd or its
authorized technical personnel to operate, maintain, audit, modify, enhance,
migrate, and continue the HRIS.
The source code turnover shall include, at minimum:
1. complete application source code;
2. module source code;
3. custom extension source code;
4. API and integration source code;
5. middleware, connectors, adapters, and data exchange scripts;
6. database schema;
7. database migration scripts;
8. seed, reference, and configuration data required for deployment;
9. report templates;
10. form templates;
11. workflow definitions;
12. business rule configurations;
13. build scripts;
14. deployment scripts;
15. rollback scripts;
16. environment configuration templates;
17. automated test scripts, where applicable;
87

===== PAGE 88 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
18. manual test scripts and test cases;
19. package manifests and dependency files;
20. third-party library and license inventory;
21. repository access credentials;
22. administrator credentials;
23. system setup and installation guide;
24. local development environment setup guide;
25. production deployment guide;
26. troubleshooting and maintenance guide.
The Service Provider shall not include any component, dependency, license, or
proprietary restriction that would prevent DepEd from receiving, inspecting,
building, deploying, maintaining, modifying, enhancing, migrating, or continuing
the HRIS.
Where third-party libraries, frameworks, packages, or services are used, the
Service Provider shall disclose them fully and ensure that their use does not impair
DepEd’s rights to operate, maintain, and continue the HRIS.
Full source code turnover shall be a condition for final acceptance and final
milestone payment.
17. Data Return and Destruction
Data return and destruction obligations shall apply upon contract expiration,
termination, non-renewal, transition to another provider, or as otherwise required
by DepEd.
The ordinary implementation closure milestone shall require turnover of DepEd
data, configuration records, migration artifacts, documentation, account access,
and system access credentials.
A notarized certificate of data destruction shall be required when DepEd data must
be returned and deleted from the Service Provider’s systems in accordance with
the contract, data governance provisions, and applicable law.
Data destruction shall not be interpreted to require deletion of data from DepEd-
controlled environments, official repositories, approved backups, or production
systems that DepEd continues to use.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
I hereby commit to provide the above specified requirements in compliance with
the Schedule of Requirements for the Project: Procurement of Human
Resources Information System.
__________________________________________________________
Name and Signature of Bidder’s Authorized Representatives
88

===== PAGE 89 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
89

===== PAGE 90 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Technical Specifications
Item Specification Statement of Compliance
Bidders must state “Comply” or
“Not Comply” for each specification
and provide the corresponding
performance parameters for offered
equipment. Each response must be
supported by a clear documentary
support in the bid and properly cross-
referenced. Acceptable evidence
includes unaltered manufacturer sales
brochures, official specification sheets,
product samples, independent test
results, and similar documents.
Claims should be backed by
documentary support. If the evidence
contradicts the claim, the bid may be
rejected. Any false statement—
whether in the compliance form or
supporting documents—found during
evaluation, post-qualification, or
contract implementation may be
considered fraudulent in accordance
with ITB Clause 3.1(a)(ii) and without
prejudice to the imposition of
appropriate administrative, civil, and
criminal penalty in accordance with
law.
90

===== PAGE 91 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Detailed Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
1. Project Title Human Resources Information System (HRIS).
2. Objective 2.1. The Supplier shall provide DepEd with a modern, integrated, and
scalable Human Resources Information System (HRIS).
2.2. It shall include payroll and human capital management functionalities,
ensure compliance with government regulations, improve data accuracy,
and enhance employee services across the entire Department.
3.1. The system shall cover all organizational levels of DepEd, including:
3. Scope
3.1.1. Central Office (CO)
3.1.2. Regional Offices (RO)
3.1.3. Schools Division Offices (SDO)
3.1.4. District Offices
3.1.5. Schools (elementary, junior high school, and senior high
school).
3.2. The HRIS will serve over one million employees, covering plantilla,
contract of service (COS), job order (JO), and other employment categories.
Specifications shall cater to teaching, related-teaching, and non-teaching
personnel.
3.3. Key functional areas to be included in phased implementation are:
3.3.1. Personnel Information Management
3.3.2. Applicant Portal
3.3.3. Recruitment, Selection, and Placement (RSP)
3.3.4. Employee Self-Service Portal
3.3.5. Leave and Attendance Management
3.3.6. Payroll (General, Special, Personnel Voucher)
3.3.7. Performance Management (SPMS, IPCR, OPCR)
3.3.8. Learning and Development
3.3.9. Rewards and Recognition
3.3.10. Employee Wellness and Welfare including Health Profile
3.3.11. Succession Planning (to include career progression)
3.4. The first three functional areas — Personnel Information Management,
Applicant Portal, and Recruitment, Selection, and Placement (RSP) — are
presented in detail within this document, with technical specifications
describing their processes, workflows, and reporting requirements.
3.5. The remaining functional areas — Employee Self-Service, Leave and
Attendance Management, Payroll, Performance Management, Learning and
Development, Rewards and Recognition, and Employee Wellness and
Welfare including Health Profile — shall be finalized through further
consultations with the concerned offices, process owners, and user groups
91

===== PAGE 92 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
within the Department. The design and implementation of these modules
will be guided by existing DepEd policies, CSC and DBM requirements, and
established government standards.
3.6. It is understood that the delivery of these additional modules forms
part of the service commitment under the Implementation Plan, with
specifications to be confirmed and refined during the inception and
business process validation stages. The Service Provider shall ensure that
the system accommodates these modules in accordance with DepEd’s
operational requirements and the phased rollout strategy.
4. General 4.1. Integration and Data Exchange.
Specifications
4.1.1. The system shall ensure that all modules are seamlessly
integrated, utilizing a centralized and common database.
4.1.2. The system shall support full interoperability, enabling the
secure exchange and sharing of information with other
organizational systems through standardized Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs).
4.1.3. The technologies employed shall facilitate integration with
current and future platforms used by the Department and its
oversight bodies.
4.2. Electronic Approval Workflow.
4.2.1. The system shall provide a fully electronic, highly
customizable approval workflow that enables the routing, processing,
and storage of transactions to authorized recipients, supervisors, and
managers.
4.2.2. The approval process shall accommodate varying levels of
reviewers and approvers depending on employee rank, position, or
request type.
4.2.3. The system shall support digital signatures and allow for
future integration with the Department’s e-signature initiatives
through APIs or similar mechanisms.
4.3. Built-in Internal Controls and Business Rules Integration.
4.3.1. The system shall enforce compliance with applicable policies
and regulations through embedded program validation controls.
4.3.2. Transactions shall only proceed in accordance with defined
rules, ensuring adherence to the standards of government oversight
bodies and internal policies.
4.3.3. The system shall include automated checks to prevent errors,
redundancies, or violations of established business rules.
4.4. Online Forms and Audit Controls.
4.4.1. The system shall provide electronic forms across all modules
and submodules that can be filled out online and submitted with
92

===== PAGE 93 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
documentary attachments that can accommodate all file types.
4.4.2. The system shall support process integration, allowing
relevant data from previously submitted forms to automatically carry
over to subsequent processes, thereby eliminating manual re-
encoding.
4.4.3. The system shall automatically generate and assign control
numbers to requests, forms, records, and reports, as applicable, for
audit trail and tracking purposes.
4.5. Compliance with Inter-Agency Standards and Updates.
4.5.1. The system shall remain compliant with policies, protocols,
and requirements issued by relevant government oversight and
regulatory bodies, including but not limited to the Department of
Information and Communications Technology (DICT), the Civil
Service Commission (CSC), the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM), the National Privacy Commission (NPC), and
other applicable agencies.
4.5.2. The Service Provider shall ensure the following:
4.5.2.1. Adaptability to Updates – The system is capable of
accommodating changes, updates, or enhancements required
by such inter-agency issuances (e.g., new compliance
protocols, reporting formats, security standards, or HR
process guidelines).
4.5.2.2. Implementation Timeline – All necessary
adjustments shall be developed, tested, and deployed within
ninety (90) calendar days from the date of issuance of the
relevant regulation or directive, unless otherwise specified by
the Department.
4.5.2.3. Consultation and Validation – The Service Provider
shall consult with the Department and concerned agencies, as
necessary, to validate the implementation of changes and
ensure full compliance.
4.5.2.4. Documentation and Training – Updated user
manuals, process guides, and orientation/training sessions
shall be provided to ensure that both administrators and end-
users are properly equipped to implement the updated
compliance protocols.
4.5.2.5. Security Policy - Ensure immediate settlement of
any possible Information and Communications Technology
security issues to prioritize securing HR Data, especially those
confidential in nature.
4.5.2.6. Failure to comply with these requirements shall
render the Service Provider in breach of its contractual
obligations and subject to appropriate penalties.
93

===== PAGE 94 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5. Functional 5.1. External Applications Portal.
Detailed
5.1.1. The system shall categorize and display job postings under
Specifications
either the Central Office (CO) or the Regional Offices (RO). Once an
of Identified
application is submitted by an external applicant, the appropriate
Modules
Recruitment Officer (CO or RO) shall be automatically notified.
5.1.2. The system shall require external applicants to create a secure
account prior to submitting any job application.
5.1.3. The system shall allow external applicants to:
5.1.3.1. View available job openings;
5.1.3.2. Submit applications; and
5.1.3.3. Save job listings for future reference.
5.1.4. The system shall enable external applicants to complete
application details in the prescribed Personal Data Sheet (PDS)
format.
5.1.5. The system shall allow applicants to upload supporting
documents, including but not limited to:
5.1.5.1. Profile picture,
5.1.5.2. Application letter, and
5.1.5.3. Notarized Personal Data Sheet.
5.1.6. The system shall allow Recruitment Officers (CO or RO) to
reopen applications that were previously withdrawn by the applicant.
5.1.7. The system shall provide external applicants with real-time
access to their application status.
5.1.8. The system shall automatically notify external applicants, via
email, six (6) months after account creation to update their Personal
Data Sheet and Work Experience records.
5.1.9. The system shall generate and send acknowledgment emails
to applicants upon successful submission of an application.
5.1.10. The system shall display the current application status
to external applicants using the following categories:
5.1.10.1. Draft
5.1.10.2. Submitted
5.1.10.3. Ongoing
5.1.10.4. Appointed
5.1.10.5. Not Chosen
5.2. Job Posting.
5.2.1. The system shall allow the Central Office (CO) Recruitment
Officer or Regional Office (RO) Recruitment Officer to create and post
job openings based on the approved Civil Service Commission (CSC)
94

===== PAGE 95 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
Form 9.
5.2.2. The system shall provide functionality for the CO or RO
Recruitment Officer to generate CSC Form 9 directly within the
platform.
5.2.3. The system shall allow RO Recruitment Officers to
independently post job openings specific to their Regional Office.
5.2.4. The system shall enable the CO Recruitment Officer to tag a
job posting as either:
5.2.4.1. Publication (external media), or
5.2.4.2. Internal Posting (Agency Website, Bulletin Board, and
Social Media Accounts).
5.2.5. The system shall provide a facility for setting submission
deadlines for applications and shall generate reminders for
Recruitment Officers of upcoming deadlines.
5.2.6. Recruitment Officers may be allowed to view submitted
applications for monitoring and administrative preparation, while
formal evaluation or processing shall commence only after the lapse
of the prescribed submission period, unless the process owner
determines otherwise
5.2.7. For Plantilla job postings, the system shall automatically set
the following tabs as required fields, with the option to add additional
tabs as necessary:
5.2.7.1. Personal Information
5.2.7.2. Educational Background
5.2.7.3. Work Experience
5.2.7.4. Learning and Development
5.2.7.5. Eligibility
5.2.7.6. References
5.2.8. For Non-Plantilla (Casual) job postings, the system shall
automatically set the following tabs as required fields, with the option
to add additional tabs as necessary:
5.2.8.1. Personal Information
5.2.8.2. Educational Background
5.2.8.3. Work Experience
5.2.8.4. Learning and Development
5.2.8.5. References
5.2.9. The system shall allow the CO Recruitment Officer to encode
the Qualification Standards (QS) for each position.
5.2.10. The system shall allow the CO or RO Recruitment
95

===== PAGE 96 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
Officer to:
5.2.10.1. unpublish a job posting when necessary;
5.2.10.2. upload multiple job postings in bulk using a system-
provided template;
5.2.10.3. define the minimum educational requirement for
each job posting;
5.2.10.4. specify documentary requirements for each job
posting;
5.2.10.5. post and process job openings in relation to Job
Order (JO) positions;
5.2.10.6. manage and update Qualification Standards in
accordance with the QS Manual.
5.2.11. The system shall enforce submission deadlines by
disallowing applicants from submitting applications after 5:00 PM on
the deadline date.
5.2.12. Once a job posting is published, the system shall
automatically notify all relevant personnel of the available job
opening.
5.3. Job Opportunities.
5.3.1. The system shall provide users with access to a secure self-
service portal where they can view all available job opportunities.
5.3.2. The system shall display all active job openings on the users
dashboard, regardless of whether the posting originates from the
Central Office or a Regional Office.
5.3.3. The system shall allow users to view the complete details of
each job posting.
5.3.4. The system shall enable personnel to apply directly for any job
opening through the portal.
5.3.5. 5.3.5. The system shall validate the users’ Personal Data Sheet
(PDS) and Work Experience Sheet (WES) against the required tabs of
the job opening. If the PDS/WES is incomplete or outdated, the
system shall prompt the users to update and resubmit within the
prescribed application period and before final submission or
evaluation, subject to the recruitment rules set by the process owner
prior to completing the application
5.3.6. The system shall allow users to monitor and track the status
of their submitted applications in real time.
5.3.7. The system shall allow users to cancel an application at any
stage prior to final processing.
5.3.8. The system shall allow users to submit multiple applications
without restriction.
96

===== PAGE 97 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.4. Applicant Management.
5.4.1. The system shall allow the Central Office (CO) Recruitment
Officer or Regional Office (RO) Recruitment Officer to access and
manage the complete list of applicants—both internal and external—
for each job posting.
5.4.2. The system shall provide functionality for the generation of a
Personal Data Sheet (PDS) and Work Experience Sheet (WES) for
applicants.
5.4.3. The system shall enable Recruitment Officers to process
applications in accordance with applicable requirements and
workflows, including separate provisions for Non-Plantilla and
Plantilla positions.
5.4.4. Non-Plantilla Applications (Internal and External)
5.4.4.1. Pre-Screening
5.4.4.1.1. The system shall allow the Recruitment
Officer to tag applicants as either Qualified or Not
Qualified.
5.4.4.1.2. The system shall allow tagging of
documentary requirements with the following statuses:
5.4.4.1.2.1. Complete
5.4.4.1.2.2. Incomplete
5.4.4.1.2.3. For Compliance
5.4.4.1.2.4. For Resubmission
5.4.4.2. Endorsement by Office
5.4.4.2.1. The system shall allow recruitment officers
to endorse qualified applicants for further processing.
5.4.4.3. Issuance of Resolution
5.4.4.3.1. Once endorsement is completed, the system
shall generate a congratulatory email notification to the
applicant.
5.4.4.4. Preparation and Processing of Appointment
Papers
5.4.4.4.1. The system shall provide tools to facilitate
the preparation and processing of appointment-related
documentation.
5.4.4.5. Submission to CSC
5.4.4.5.1. The system shall automatically set a default
number of days after the assumption date for the
submission of required documents to the Civil Service
Commission (CSC).
5.4.4.5.2. The system shall still allow the Recruitment
97

===== PAGE 98 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
Officer to process the applicant even after the
prescribed period has lapsed.
5.4.5. Plantilla Applications (Internal and External)
5.4.5.1. Pre-Screening (Initial)
5.4.5.1.1. The system shall allow the Recruitment
Officer to tag applicants as either:
5.4.5.1.1.1. Qualified; or
5.4.5.1.1.2. Not Qualified.
5.4.5.1.2. The system shall send an email notification
to all applicants informing them of their status
(qualified or not qualified).
5.4.5.1.3. The system shall allow tagging of
documentary requirements as:
5.4.5.1.3.1. Complete
5.4.5.1.3.2. Incomplete
5.4.5.1.3.3. For Compliance
5.4.5.1.3.4. For Resubmission
5.4.5.1.4. The system shall notify the applicant once
each step has been completed.
5.4.5.2. Pre-Screening (Review)
5.4.5.2.1. The same tagging and notification
functionality as the initial screening shall apply.
5.4.5.3. Competency-Based and IQ Examination Posting
5.4.5.3.1. The system shall allow Recruitment Officers
to encode details such as:
5.4.5.3.1.1. Online meeting link (if applicable)
5.4.5.3.1.2. Examination date and time
5.4.5.3.1.3. Examination venue
5.4.5.3.2. The system shall notify the applicant once
details are posted.
5.4.5.4. Examination Administration
5.4.5.4.1. The system shall automatically display
examination schedules based on encoded details.
5.4.5.4.2. The system shall allow tagging of applicant
attendance (Present/Not Present).
5.4.5.4.3. The system shall notify the applicant once
the step is completed.
5.4.5.5. Background Investigation
98

===== PAGE 99 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.4.5.5.1. The system shall allow Recruitment Officers
to record findings from background checks.
5.4.5.6. Notice of Panel Interview
5.4.5.6.1. The system shall allow encoding of interview
details (date, time, venue, onsite/online).
5.4.5.6.2. The system shall notify applicants once this
step is completed.
5.4.5.7. Panel Interview
5.4.5.7.1. The system shall allow tagging of whether
the interview was conducted.
5.4.5.7.2. The system shall allow the step to be
completed by the Recruitment Officer.
5.4.5.8. Board Deliberation
5.4.5.8.1. The system shall allow tagging of applicants
who are within the top five ranking.
5.4.5.8.2. If qualified, the process shall proceed to the
Psychometric Examination step.
5.4.5.8.3. If not qualified, the system shall allow the
Recruitment Officer to send regret letters to non-
selected candidates.
5.4.5.9. Notice of Psychometric Examination
5.4.5.9.1. The system shall notify applicants of
examination details once posted.
5.4.5.10. Evaluation of Psychometric Examination
Results
5.4.5.10.1. The system shall allow Recruitment
Officers to tag whether results have been submitted.
5.4.5.10.2. The system shall notify applicants once
evaluation is completed.
5.4.5.11. HR Endorsement
5.4.5.11.1. The system shall allow tagging of applicant
status as For Review, Return to RO, For Compliance, or
For Endorsement.
5.4.5.11.2. The system shall notify applicants once the
status is updated.
5.4.5.12. Endorsement of Qualified Candidates
5.4.5.12.1. The system shall allow Recruitment
Officers to encode the date of endorsement.
5.4.5.12.2. The system shall allow uploading of
supporting documents.
99

===== PAGE 100 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.4.5.12.3. The system shall generate an official
Endorsement Report.
5.4.6. Schedule.
5.4.6.1. The system shall display a calendar view of the
current month, reflecting all scheduled recruitment-related
activities.
5.4.6.2. The system shall automatically update the calendar
to include any additions, changes, or rescheduling of
interviews, examinations, or related activities entered through
the Manage Applicant process.
5.4.6.3. The system shall utilize predefined legends or
markers in the calendar to clearly distinguish between
different types of activities such as examinations, interviews,
deliberations, or endorsements.
5.4.6.4. The system shall automatically tally and display the
number of applicants scheduled for each type of activity (e.g.,
interviews, examinations, deliberations, endorsements).
5.4.6.5. The system shall allow users to view applicant
details—including name, position applied for, and activity
venue—when selecting a specific date in the calendar.
5.4.7. Candidates.
5.4.7.1. The system shall display categorized lists of
applicants, including but not limited to:
5.4.7.1.1. Applicants who have passed the
examination,
5.4.7.1.2. Applicants who were not appointed, and
5.4.7.1.3. Applicants for whom no regret letter has
been sent.
5.4.7.2. The system shall allow the Central Office (CO)
Recruitment Officer or Regional Office (RO) Recruitment
Officer to send email notifications directly through the system
to applicants as required.
5.4.7.3. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
generate a Matrix of Applicants for use in evaluation and
decision-making processes.
5.4.7.4. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
generate a Rating Evaluation Sheet, with functionality to sort
applicant records based on:
5.4.7.4.1. Total Points (with performance rating), or
5.4.7.4.2. Total Points (without performance rating).
5.4.7.5. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
generate a List of Qualified Applicants for endorsement and
100

===== PAGE 101 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
appointment purposes.
5.4.7.6. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
generate Demographic Reports per Position, including
applicant distribution by relevant categories (e.g., education,
experience, gender, age).
5.4.8. Application Assessment
5.4.8.1. The system shall display a complete list of all
applicants, including both external and internal candidates.
5.4.8.2. The system shall display applicant data together with
all related recruitment activities conducted.
5.4.8.3. The system shall allow the Central Office (CO)
Recruitment Officer or Regional Office (RO) Recruitment
Officer to generate a Rating Evaluation Sheet.
5.4.8.4. The system shall allow sorting of applicant reports
based on:
5.4.8.4.1. Total Points (with performance rating), or
5.4.8.4.2. Total Points (without performance rating).
5.4.8.5. The system shall display the list of assessment
criteria and enable definition of ratings for each criterion.
5.4.8.6. The system shall automatically calculate the average
interview rating based on defined criteria.
5.4.8.7. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
designate an interviewer for each applicant.
5.4.8.8. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
save the assessment record as a draft or post it immediately.
5.4.8.9. Once posted, the system shall allow the Recruitment
Officer to generate an official Applicant Assessment Form.
5.4.8.10. The system shall allow the Personnel Selection
Board (PSB) Secretariat to rate applicants, with the system
automatically computing the average score per criterion.
5.4.8.11. The system shall display converted points within the
Rating Evaluation Sheet for reference.
5.4.8.12. The system shall allow the PSB Secretariat to save
ratings as a draft or post them immediately.
5.4.8.13. Once posted, the system shall allow the PSB
Secretariat to generate the Applicant Assessment Form.
5.4.8.14. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
encode details of the Background Investigation conducted on
applicants.
5.4.8.15. The system shall display the highest background
investigation rating within the Rating Evaluation Sheet.
101

===== PAGE 102 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.4.8.16. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
conduct and record findings from three (3) or more
background investigations.
5.4.8.17. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to
encode results gathered from external informants during the
background investigation process.
5.4.8.18. For internal applicants, the system shall
automatically apply the latest performance rating.
5.4.8.19. For external applicants and applicants from other
government agencies, the system shall provide functionality
to:
5.4.8.19.1. Allow applicants to encode their ratings
based on submitted documents;
5.4.8.19.2. Allow the PSB Secretariat to review and
modify the ratings as necessary; and
5.4.8.19.3. Capture both numerical and adjectival
ratings in the system.
5.4.8.20. Once all required steps are completed and posted,
the system shall allow the Recruitment Officer or the PSB
Secretariat to generate the final Applicant Assessment Form.
5.5. Appointment Process.
5.5.1. The system shall allow the Central Office (CO) Recruitment
Officer or Regional Office (RO) Recruitment Officer to validate
whether the selected appointee complies with all required
appointment documentary requirements.
5.5.2. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to generate a
Report on Appointments Issued.
5.5.3. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to tag whether
the appointment paper or resolution has been released. Once
released, the system shall automatically notify the appointee via
email.
5.5.4. The system shall automatically send an email to the appointee
containing the list of appointment requirements that must be
submitted.
5.5.5. The system shall allow the CO Recruitment Officer to generate
the CSC Form 33A – Appointment Form (Regulated).
5.5.6. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to generate the
Oath of Office form.
5.5.7. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to generate a
Certificate of Erasures/Alterations.
5.5.8. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to generate the
HRMPSB Endorsement Report.
5.5.9. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to set and
102

===== PAGE 103 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
record the official Orientation Date for the appointee.
5.5.10. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to define
and record the Probationary Period for the new employee.
5.5.11. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to post
and finalize the appointment details within the system.
5.5.12. The system shall allow the Recruitment Officer to select
an alternate appointee in the event that the first appointee withdraws
from the appointment.
5.5.13. The system shall require the Recruitment Officer to
upload a formal Withdrawal Letter from the original appointee in
order to complete the reassignment process.
5.6. New Hire Processing.
5.6.1. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to access the
complete list of appointees requiring new hire processing.
5.6.2. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to generate the
Personal Data Sheet (PDS) for each appointee.
5.6.3. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to assign a
unique Employee Number to the new hire.
5.6.4. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to input and
assign a Biometric PIN for timekeeping and attendance tracking
purposes.
5.6.5. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to assign the
work schedule of the new hire.
5.6.6. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to designate the
official work location of the new hire.
5.6.7. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to record and
transfer any carried-over leave balances of the new hire, particularly
for those transferring from other government agencies.
5.6.8. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to add
compensation and benefits over and above the default package
applicable to plantilla or non-plantilla personnel.
5.6.9. The system shall allow the HR Records Officer to add
deductions beyond the standard default deductions applied to
plantilla or non-plantilla personnel.
5.6.10. For internal applicants, the new hire processing shall
be skipped. Instead, once the Assumption Date has been set in the
Appointment Module, the system shall automatically create a new
work experience record in the Core > Personnel Management module.
5.7. Reports Generation.
5.7.1. The system shall have the capability to generate, export, and
print the following reports and forms to support recruitment,
selection, appointment, and related HR processes:
103

===== PAGE 104 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.7.1.1. Request for Publication of Vacant Positions
5.7.1.2. Personal Data Sheet
5.7.1.3. Work Experience Sheet
5.7.1.4. Report on Appointments Issued
5.7.1.5. CSC Form 33A - Appointment Form Regulated
5.7.1.6. Oath of Office
5.7.1.7. Certificate of Erasures Alteration
5.7.1.8. HRMPSB Endorsement Report
5.7.1.9. Matrix of Applicants
5.7.1.10. Rating Evaluation Sheet
5.7.1.11. List of Qualified Applicants Demographics per
Position
5.7.1.12. Endorsement Report
5.7.1.13. Profile of Applicants
5.7.1.14. List of Applicant per Job Posting
5.7.1.15. Applicant Assessment Summary Form
5.7.1.16. Applicant for Plantilla Position
5.7.1.17. Appointment Form
5.7.1.18. Certificate of Assumption to Duty List of
Applications Received
5.7.1.19. List of Appointments
5.7.1.20. Certificate of the Absence of a Qualified Eligible
5.7.1.21. List of Pooling Candidates
5.7.1.22. List of Qualified Applicants
5.7.1.23. List of Vacant Positions
5.7.1.24. Recruitment Aging and Processing Report
5.7.1.25. Status of the Recruitment and Selection Process
5.7.1.26. Talent Sourcing
5.7.1.27. Interview Rating Sheet
5.7.1.28. Reporting to Office of the Appointee Background
Investigation
5.8. Personnel Information Management.
5.8.1. The system shall provide authorized Human Resource (HR)
personnel with the capability to maintain, update, and manage
comprehensive employee records (201 files) for all personnel.
5.8.2. It shall serve as the central repository of employee information,
supporting report generation, compliance with government
104

===== PAGE 105 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
standards, and integration with payroll and other HR processes.
5.8.3. Employee Record Management
5.8.3.1. The system shall allow authorized HR personnel to
maintain complete 201 files of employees.
5.8.3.2. The system shall store and manage data including,
but not limited to:
5.8.3.2.1. Office/Regional Office
5.8.3.2.2. Division
5.8.3.2.3. Salary Grade and Salary Tranches
5.8.3.2.4. Position Title
5.8.3.2.5. Eligibility
5.8.3.2.6. Employment Status
5.8.3.2.7. Job Level
5.8.3.2.8. Plantilla/Non-Plantilla designation
5.8.3.2.9. Account Codes
5.8.4. Personal Data Sheet (PDS) Management
5.8.4.1. The system shall provide a customizable Personal
Data Sheet (PDS) aligned with the Civil Service Commission
(CSC) prescribed format.
5.8.4.2. The PDS shall include, and be capable of updating,
the following details at any time:
5.8.4.2.1. Personal Details
5.8.4.2.2. Employment and Work Experience
5.8.4.2.3. Family Background
5.8.4.2.4. Educational Background
5.8.4.2.5. Eligibility
5.8.4.2.6. Voluntary Work
5.8.4.2.7. Training and Seminars Attended
5.8.4.2.8. Awards and Other Information; and
5.8.4.2.9. References
5.8.5. Employee History Tracking
5.8.5.1. The system shall maintain the complete history of
job-related information for each employee, including:
5.8.5.1.1. Employee ID
5.8.5.1.2. Date of Assumption
5.8.5.1.3. Position Title and Item Number
105

===== PAGE 106 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.8.5.1.4. Salary Grade and Step
5.8.5.1.5. Office/Division/Section assignment
5.8.5.1.6. Employment Status
5.8.5.1.7. Salary (monthly/quarterly/annually)
5.8.5.1.8. Salary Adjustments and Step Increments
5.8.5.1.9. Allowances (RATA, PERA, others)
5.8.5.1.10. Separation Date
5.8.5.1.11. Nature of Separation
5.8.6. Compliance Support
5.8.6.1. The system shall support the Personnel Services
Itemization and Plantilla of Personnel (PSIPOP) requirements
of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM).
5.8.6.2. The system shall enable Payroll Officers to process
salary differentials, step increments, and loyalty pay.
5.8.6.3. The system shall allow recording of administrative
cases and disciplinary actions for employees.
5.8.7. Reports and Certifications
5.8.7.1. The system shall generate reports and documents
using prescribed formats, including but not limited to:
5.8.7.1.1. Service Record
5.8.7.1.2. Distribution of Employees by
Sector/Office/Division
5.8.7.1.3. Updated Personnel Statistics and
demographic listings (filled/unfilled positions, age, sex,
educational background, civil status, etc.)
5.8.7.1.4. Certificate of Employment and other
employee-related certifications
5.8.7.1.5. Agency Plantilla of Personnel
5.8.7.1.6. Employee Masterlist
5.8.7.1.7. Notice of Salary Adjustment
5.8.7.1.8. Notice of Step Increment
5.8.7.1.9. List of Employees entitled to Loyalty or Step
Increment
5.8.8. Forms Management
5.8.8.1. The system shall display and process forms
prescribed by HRD and relevant agencies (CSC, DBM, GSIS,
PhilHealth, Pag-IBIG, SSS, BIR), including:
5.8.8.1.1. Personal Data Sheet (PDS)
106

===== PAGE 107 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.8.8.1.2. Application for Leave of Absence
5.8.8.1.3. Application for Monetization of
Vacation/Sick Leave Credits
5.8.8.1.4. Statement of Assets, Liabilities, and Net
Worth (SALN)
5.8.8.1.5. Application for Compensatory Time-Off
(CTO)
5.8.8.1.6. Performance Management Forms (Individual
Performance Commitment and Review Form (IPCRF),
Office Performance Commitment and Review Form
(OPCRF), Performance Monitoring and Coaching Form,
Performance Calibration Form, Certificate of
Performance Assessment)
5.8.8.1.7. Work Experience Sheet (WES)
5.8.8.1.8. Permission Slips and Official Business
Passes
5.8.8.1.9. Membership forms (GSIS, Pag-IBIG,
PhilHealth, SSS, BIR)
5.8.8.1.10. Loan and Claims forms (GSIS, Pag-IBIG,
PhilHealth, SSS, BIR)
5.8.8.1.11. Other applicable government forms
5.8.9. Analytics and Visualization
5.8.9.1. The system shall generate HR dashboards, charts,
graphs, and statistical reports for analysis
5.8.10. HR Actions and Appointments
5.8.10.1. The system shall support the recording, processing,
and issuance of appointments and HR actions, including but
not limited to:
5.8.10.1.1. Promotion, Transfer, Reemployment,
Reinstatement
5.8.10.1.2. Demotion (voluntary or disciplinary)
5.8.10.1.3. Reclassification, Reassignment, Detail,
Designation
5.8.10.1.4. Probationary Period assignment
5.8.10.1.5. Change in Item Number
5.8.10.1.6. Step Increment or Salary Adjustment
5.8.10.1.7. Reinstatement to same position/item
5.8.10.1.8. Coterminous appointments
5.8.11. Employee Feedback
107

===== PAGE 108 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
5.8.11.1. The system shall be capable of capturing and
displaying collected feedback and reviews from employees as
part of HR monitoring.
6. Generic
6.1. In addition to the detailed specifications for Personnel Information
Specifications
Management, Applicant Portal, and the sub--modules involving
of Additional
Recruitment, Selection and Placement (RSP), the HRIS shall also include
Modules
additional functional key areas. These shall be designed and implemented
based on further consultations with the Department’s process owners and
aligned with applicable government rules and regulations. The Service
Provider shall ensure that these modules are integrated seamlessly with the
core HRIS and shall form part of the overall service commitment.
6.2. Employee Self-Service Portal.
6.2.1. The system shall provide employees with secure self-service
access to their HR information and transactions. At a minimum, the
portal shall allow employees to:
6.2.1.1. Update and view their Personal Data Sheet (PDS) and
employment records.
6.2.1.2. Access payslips, leave balances, and benefits.
6.2.1.3. Submit requests such as leave, travel authority,
official business, time-off, and monetization of leave credits.
6.2.1.4. View records of training, performance evaluations,
and recognition received.
6.3. Leave and Attendance Management
6.3.1. The system shall automate the filing, routing, approval, and
tracking of employee leave and attendance. At a minimum, it shall
support:
6.3.1.1. Filing, routing, and approval of leave applications in
compliance with Civil Service rules.
6.3.1.2. Attendance logging, with integration to biometric
devices and/or online attendance systems.
6.3.1.3. Leave credit accrual and monitoring.
6.3.1.4. Filing and approval of compensatory time-off (CTO)
and overtime requests.
6.3.1.5. Compliance with Civil Service Commission (CSC)
leave administration policies.
6.4. Payroll (General, Special, Personnel Voucher)
6.4.1. The system shall generate payroll in compliance with
government rules, ensuring accuracy, transparency, and
accountability. At a minimum, it shall support:
6.4.1.1. Payroll generation for plantilla and non-plantilla
personnel.
6.4.1.2. Computation of taxes, GSIS, Pag-IBIG, PhilHealth,
and SSS contributions.
108

===== PAGE 109 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
6.4.1.3. Inclusion of allowances, overtime pay, and other
deductions.
6.4.1.4. Generation of payroll vouchers, disbursement
schedules, and remittance reports.
6.4.1.5. Full audit trail of payroll transactions and support for
parallel run testing prior to full implementation.
6.5. Performance Management (SPMS, IPCR, OPCR)
6.5.1. The system shall support the Strategic Performance
Management System (SPMS) and related DepEd performance
processes. At a minimum, it shall include:
6.5.1.1. Encoding of individual, office, and organizational
performance commitments (IPCR, OPCR).
6.5.1.2. Performance monitoring, coaching, review and
evaluation workflows.
6.5.1.3. Automatic computation and consolidation of
summary of performance data and ratings including ratings
on Objectives and Key Result Areas (KRAs), demonstrated
DepEd Competencies (i.e., Core, Functional and Leadership)
with data segregation by rating period or performance cycle,
office and improvement development plan, and individual
development plan
6.5.1.4. Linkage of performance results to rewards and
recognitions, promotions, career development, and learning
and development interventions
6.5.1.5. Compliance with CSC SPMS guidelines and DepEd
internal performance frameworks.
6.6. Learning and Development.
6.6.1. The system shall support the management of employee
capacity-building and L&D programs. At a minimum, it shall provide:
6.6.1.1. Tools for L&D need identification, planning, and
scheduling.
6.6.1.2. Training records management, including completed
courses, certifications, and participation history.
6.6.1.3. Tracking of Individual Development Plans (IDPs).
6.6.1.4. Evaluation of L&D outcomes and effectiveness.
6.6.1.5. Posting, Update, and Administration of L&D
intervention and Scholarship opportunities and availment
procedures.
6.6.1.6. Administration of Service Obligation Contracts
6.6.1.7. Tools for designing, submitting, reviewing and
approving PD programs, including alignment with
PPST/PPSSH/PPSS competency standard
109

===== PAGE 110 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
6.6.1.8. Management of PD authorized providers, specifically
their performance in terms of the no. of quality
assured/recognized programs and the no. of submission of
completion reports.
6.6.1.9. Monitoring of program implementation, attendance,
outputs and completion
6.6.1.10. Learning Management System for NEAP core
programs
6.7. Rewards and Recognition.
6.7.1. The system shall enable transparent and systematic
management of employee incentives and recognition programs. At a
minimum, it shall support:
6.7.1.1. Administration of awards and incentives, including
commendations and citations. To include consolidating
mechanisms and features to manage nomination forms and
documents for DepEd Central Office or External Award giving
body (i.e. CSC, CESB, Metrobank etc.)
6.7.1.2. Processing of loyalty awards, step increments, and
related recognitions. Automation of processing of eligible
personnel of such loyalty incentive given the integration of the
module with the service records of employees
6.7.1.3. Integration with performance management results to
ensure merit-based recognition.
6.8. Employee Wellness and Welfare.
6.8.1. The system shall support monitoring and management of
employee wellness and welfare initiatives. At a minimum, it shall
include:
6.8.1.1. Tracking of wellness programs (health, counseling,
fitness activities).
6.8.1.2. Management of welfare services (insurance,
emergency assistance, employee aid programs).
6.8.1.3. Monitoring of employee participation and evaluation
of program impact.
6.8.1.4. Capture the health profile (basic health information,
medical and family history, HMO/Health Insurance coverage)
following a strict data privacy protocol for health related
records.
6.8.1.5. Generate ONLY statistical data reports and analysis
of the health and wellness information of the employees
needed for review/development of related policies and
programs.
7. 7.1. Within thirty (30) calendar days from issuance of the Notice to Proceed
Implementation (NTP), the Service Provider shall submit a detailed Implementation Plan for
110

===== PAGE 111 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
Plan approval by the Department.
Requirement
7.2. The Implementation Plan shall include, at a minimum:
7.2.1. Project Work Plan and Schedule – Detailed timelines,
milestones, and deliverables covering all phases of development,
configuration, data migration, testing, training, and rollout.
7.2.2. Module Deployment Roadmap – Clear sequencing of the
deployment of all HRIS modules, including Personnel Information
Management, Applicant Portal, Recruitment, Selection and
Placement (RSP), Employee Self-Service, Leave and Attendance,
Payroll, Performance Management, Learning and Development,
Rewards and Recognition, and Employee Wellness and Welfare.
7.2.3. Resource Allocation – Identification of technical and
functional teams, their roles and responsibilities, and required
Department counterparts.
7.2.4. Risk Management Plan – Identification of risks, mitigation
strategies, and contingency measures.
7.2.5. Acceptance Criteria – Defined success indicators, test
scripts, and quality assurance mechanisms for each module and
phase.
7.3. The Service Provider shall ensure that all modules required under the
HRIS scope are included in the plan and scheduled for deployment in
accordance with the Implementation Roadmap, with full completion no later
than the agreed final project delivery date.
7.4. Failure to submit the Implementation Plan within the prescribed thirty
(30) days, or failure to incorporate all modules into the plan, shall constitute
a breach of contract and may be grounds for the imposition of penalties or
contract termination, subject to existing government procurement rules and
regulations.
8.1. Confidentiality of Data.
8. Data
8.1.1. Compliance with Data Privacy Laws. The Service Provider
Governance shall strictly comply with the provisions of the Data Privacy Act of
2012 (Republic Act No. 10173), its Implementing Rules and
Regulations (IRR), and all other applicable laws and issuances
pertaining to data privacy and protection.
8.1.2. Non-Disclosure Obligations. All personnel of the Service
Provider assigned to the project shall be required to execute a Non-
Disclosure Agreement (NDA) prior to engagement. Such obligation
shall survive and remain in force even after the termination or
expiration of the contract, regardless of cause.
8.1.3. Personnel Changes. In the event of personnel changes,
including replacements, reassignments, or new deployments, the
Service Provider shall:
8.1.3.1. Ensure that incoming personnel execute the same
NDA prior to engagement;
8.1.3.2. Promptly notify DepEd in writing of such changes;
111

===== PAGE 112 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
and
8.1.3.3. Guarantee the continuity of confidentiality obligations
for personnel who are no longer assigned to the project.
8.1.4. Confidential Information. All information, records, reports,
data, communications, and materials, whether technical or non-
technical, including but not limited to platform data, links,
engagement metrics, dashboards, charts, and any derivative works
thereof, shall be deemed Confidential Information owned exclusively
by DepEd.
8.2. Obligations of the Service Provider. The Service Provider covenants
and agrees to:
8.2.1. Hold all Confidential Information in the strictest confidence;
8.2.2. Refrain from reproducing, transmitting, or disclosing said
information, in whole or in part, to any third party without prior
written consent of DepEd;
8.2.3. Implement reasonable and appropriate organizational,
physical, and technical security measures, consistent with industry-
recognized standards (e.g., ISO/IEC 27001:2013, ISO/IEC
27701:2019, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and related best
practices), to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
DepEd data;
8.2.4. Ensure that confidentiality and data protection obligations
extend to its subcontractors, affiliates, technology providers, and any
third parties engaged in the project;
8.2.5. Permit DepEd or its authorized representatives to audit and
monitor compliance, including inspections of facilities, systems, and
processes, during the term of the contract; and
8.2.6. Be held jointly and severally liable for any breach of
confidentiality committed by its officers, employees, agents, or
subcontractors.
8.3. Breach Notification. In the event of any unauthorized disclosure, use,
access, loss, or processing of Confidential Information, the Service Provider
shall:
8.3.1. Immediately contain the incident
8.3.2. Notify DepEd within twenty-four (24) hours of discovery,
8.3.3. Submit a full incident report within forty-eight (48) hours, and
8.3.4. Cooperate fully with DepEd in mitigation, reporting to the
NPC, and remediation.
8.4. Liability. Any unauthorized disclosure, use, or processing of
Confidential Information shall subject the Service Provider to
administrative, civil, and/or criminal liability under RA 10173, RA 8293
(Intellectual Property Code), RA 8792 (E-Commerce Act), and other
applicable laws, without prejudice to DepEd’s right to recover actual, moral,
exemplary, and consequential damages, as well as to pursue termination of
contract, forfeiture of performance security, and blacklisting in accordance
112

===== PAGE 113 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
with government procurement regulations.
8.5. Data Return and Destruction upon Termination or Expiration.
8.5.1. Return of Data.
8.5.1.1. Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement,
regardless of the cause, unless renewed, the Service Provider
shall, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the effective date
of termination or expiration, return to DepEd all Confidential
Information, including but not limited to:
8.5.1.1.1. Raw and processed data;
8.5.1.1.2. Reports, dashboards, and analytics;
8.5.1.1.3. Communication logs, call recordings, and
ticketing records;
8.5.1.1.4. Any derivative works or outputs generated
during the engagement.
8.5.1.2. All returned data shall be provided in the format
specified by DepEd (e.g., Excel, CSV, SQL dump, or other
structured formats), in both the raw schema and desired
schema, and delivered via secure, encrypted channels or
physical media, as instructed by DepEd.
8.5.2. Certification of Destruction. Within thirty (30) calendar days
following the return of data and confirmation of the successful
transfer of data, the Service Provider shall submit a notarized
Certificate of Destruction confirming that:
8.5.2.1. All copies of DepEd data, including backups,
archives, and temporary files, have been permanently deleted
from all systems, storage devices, and third-party platforms
under the Service Provider’s control;
8.5.2.2. No data has been retained, transferred, or disclosed
to any unauthorized party.
8.5.3. Third-Party Compliance. The Service Provider shall ensure
that all subcontractors, affiliates, and technology providers engaged
in the project fully comply with the data return and destruction
obligations. Proof of compliance from such third parties shall be
submitted together with the Service Provider’s certification.
8.5.4. Audit Rights. DepEd reserves the right to audit the Service
Provider’s compliance with this clause, including inspection of
facilities, systems, and destruction logs, within sixty (60) calendar
days from the termination or expiration of the Agreement, unless the
Agreement is renewed.
8.5.5. Liability. Any failure to comply with the obligations set forth
in this clause shall constitute a material breach of the Agreement and
may subject the Service Provider to penalties, including but not
limited to the forfeiture of performance security, blacklisting, and
legal action under the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (RA 10173) and other
applicable laws.
113

===== PAGE 114 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
9. Service Level 9.1. This Service Level Agreement (SLA) defines the minimum performance
Agreement and service delivery standards expected of the Service Provider in
(SLA) implementing and maintaining the DepEd Human Resources Information
System (HRIS).
9.2. Implementation Commitments
9.2.1. Implementation Plan: The Service Provider shall submit a
comprehensive Implementation Plan within thirty (30) calendar days
from the issuance of the Notice to Proceed (NTP).
9.2.2. Module Deployment: All modules identified under the
Implementation Roadmap (Personnel Information Management,
Applicant Portal, Recruitment, Selection and Placement, Employee
Self-Service, Leave and Attendance, Payroll, Performance
Management, Learning and Development, Rewards and Recognition,
and Employee Wellness and Welfare) shall be included in the
Implementation Plan, with full delivery within the agreed project
completion date.
9.2.3. Milestone Adherence: The Service Provider shall strictly
comply with agreed timelines and milestones. Delays beyond fifteen
(15) calendar days without justifiable cause shall be subject to
liquidated damages under procurement rules.
9.3. System Availability and Performance
9.3.1. System Uptime: The HRIS shall maintain a minimum
availability of 99% uptime, excluding scheduled maintenance
periods.
9.3.2. Scheduled Maintenance: Any system downtime for
maintenance shall be conducted outside of regular working hours
and with at least 72 hours prior notice to the Department.
9.3.3. Performance Standards: Core transactions (e.g., login, record
retrieval, form submission) shall be processed within 3 seconds
under normal operating conditions.
9.4. Compliance with Regulatory Updates
9.4.1. Adaptability to Policy Changes: The system shall be updated
to comply with new or revised issuances from DICT, CSC, DBM, and
other oversight agencies within ninety (90) calendar days of issuance.
9.4.2. Interim Compliance: Where system changes cannot be
deployed within the prescribed period, the Service Provider shall
provide interim compliance mechanisms (e.g., ad hoc reporting,
manual workarounds) acceptable to the Department.
9.5. Data Confidentiality, Ownership, and Custodianship
9.5.1. Data Ownership: All data shall remain the exclusive property
of DepEd. The Service Provider acts only as custodian.
9.5.2. Confidentiality: Service Provider personnel must sign NDAs;
114

===== PAGE 115 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
confidentiality obligations survive for 3 years post-contract.
9.5.3. Security Controls: The Service Provider shall apply industry-
standard security frameworks (e.g., ISO/IEC 27001, ISO/IEC 27701,
NIST) to safeguard DepEd data.
9.5.4. Breach Notification SLA:
9.5.4.1. Containment: Immediate.
9.5.4.2. Initial Notification: Within 24 hours of discovery.
9.5.4.3. Full Report: Within 72 hours of discovery.
9.5.4.4. Full cooperation with DepEd and NPC is mandatory.
9.5.5. Data Return: Within 30 calendar days of termination or
expiration, the Service Provider shall return all data in formats
specified by DepEd.
9.5.6. Data Destruction: Within 30 calendar days after data return,
the Service Provider shall issue a notarized Certificate of Data
Destruction, including proof from subcontractors/third parties.
9.5.7. Audit Rights: DepEd may audit compliance within 60
calendar days of contract end.
9.6. Support and Issue Resolution.
9.6.1. The Service Provider shall provide a helpdesk and technical
support team with the following service levels:
Severity Description Response
Resolution Time
Level Time
System-wide
outage, payroll
Critical (P1) failure, or data 1 hour 24 hours
breach
Module
unavailability,
High (P2) 2 hours 48 hours
errors affecting
majority of users
Functional errors
Medium (P3) with workaround 4 hours 5 working days
available
Minor issues, Next
Low (P4) cosmetic defects, 1 working day release/patch
user queries cycle
10. Training 10.1. User Training: The Service Provider shall conduct training for end-
and users, HR personnel, and administrators in line with each deployment
Documentation
115

===== PAGE 116 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
phase.
10.2. Documentation: Updated user manuals, administrator guides, and
process documentation shall be provided with each system release or
enhancement.
11.1. Progress Reports: The Service Provider shall submit monthly
11. Reporting
progress reports during implementation, and quarterly operational reports
and Monitoring
thereafter.
11.2. Audit Logs: The system shall maintain audit trails of all user
activities, data changes, and transactions, retrievable upon request by the
Department.
12.1. The solution shall include a dedicated Structured Service and
12. Structured
Incident Management capability to formalize employee inquiries and
Service and
manage service delivery. This capability must enforce specific HR
Incident
governance and compliance standards:
Management
12.1.1. Mandatory Capture: All employee inquiries, requests for
Capability
service, or incidents related to HR functions (e.g., payroll, benefits,
leave, policy clarification, and grievances) must be logged, tracked,
and managed exclusively as structured records within this
component.
12.1.2. Confidentiality and Data Masking: The system must
enforce robust, granular, role-based access controls to ensure that
only authorized HR personnel can view specific, highly sensitive
data elements (e.g., disciplinary records, medical information, and
performance review details) within the service request record.
12.1.3. Data Integration and Context: The Service Request
records must be fully integrated with the core HRIS data (Personnel
Information Management) to automatically access and present
comprehensive employee context relevant to the inquiry (e.g.,
location, status, job group).
12.1.4. Auditable Workflows: The system shall support the
configuration of complex, multi-stage, and dynamic resolution
workflows. These workflows must maintain a complete, immutable
audit trail for legally-mandated and compliance-critical processes
(e.g., formal grievance procedures and workplace investigations).
12.1.5 SLAs and Reporting: The system must support the
definition, tracking, and detailed reporting of Service Level
Agreements (SLAs) specific to HR service delivery.
13. Structured 13.1. The solution must be designed to facilitate the structured
Service and management of technical defects and guarantee future interoperability with
Incident dedicated support tools.
Management
116

===== PAGE 117 =====
Section VII. Technical Specifications
Description End-User’s Terms of Reference
Capability 13.1.1. Internal Technical Defect Logging: The system must
provide an auditable function for HR staff to formally log, classify,
and track all verified technical defects (bugs, integration failures)
within the Service Management component. This function must
support dedicated tracking fields, prioritization (e.g., P1, P2), and
reporting of technical issues.
13.1.2. Bi-directional API Support Mandate: The Service and
Incident Management component must expose and utilize a
RESTful API capable of bi-directional synchronization with any
future external technical support platform acquired by the
Department. This API capability is mandatory for guaranteeing
future integration.
13.1.3. Data Export for Transfer: The system must provide a
function to easily export all relevant data (summary, description,
attachments, and affected employee ID) from a technical defect
record in a structured format (e.g., XML, JSON, or CSV) for transfer
to any current or future external support mechanism.
13.1.4 Status Synchronization Readiness: The system must be
designed to receive and reflect automated status updates from an
external technical support mechanism via the API, maintaining
end-to-end transparency on the original HR service request record.
13.1.5 Root Cause Analysis Linkage: The system must include
fields and tracking capability to link a Recurring Incident (Bug) to a
formal Root Cause Analysis (RCA) record that will be managed by
the technical team, supporting continuous service improvement.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
I hereby commit to provide the above specified requirements in compliance with
the Technical Specifications for the Project: Procurement of Human Resources
Information System.
__________________________________________________________
Name and Signature of Bidder’s Authorized Representative
117

===== PAGE 118 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Notes to the Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
The Bidder shall complete and submit with its Bid the Bid Form and Price
Schedules in accordance with ITB Clause 13 with the requirements of the
Bidding Documents and the format set out in this Section.
When requested in the BDS, the Bidder should provide the Bid Security, either
in the form included hereafter or in another form acceptable to the Procuring
Entity, pursuant to ITB Clause 16.
The Contract Form should incorporate any correction or modification to the
accepted Bid resulting from price corrections when it is finalized at the time of
contract award. The Price Schedule and Schedule of Requirements which form
part of the contract should be modified accordingly.
The Omnibus Sworn Statement must be completed by all Bidders in
accordance with ITB Clause 4.2. Failure to submit it with the Bid shall result
in the rejection of the Bid and the Bidder’s disqualification.
The Performance Securing Declaration, if allowed and Bank Guarantee
Form for Advance Payment shall be completed only by the successful Bidder
in accordance with one of the forms indicated herein by the Procuring Entity,
and pursuant to GCC Clause 13 and its corresponding SCC provision.
118

===== PAGE 119 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Bid Form for Procurement of Goods ....................................................... 120
Price Schedule for Goods Offered from Within the Philippines ................ 122
Price Schedule for Goods Offered from Abroad ....................................... 123
List of All Ongoing Contracts.................................................................. 124
Statement Identifying the Single Largest Completed Contract ............... 125
Joint Venture Agreement Form .............................................................. 126
Net Financial Contracting Capacity Form ............................................... 128
Contract Form ........................................................................................ 129
Omnibus Sworn Statement Form ............................................................ 132
Bid Securing Declaration Form ............................................................... 136
Sealing and Marking of Bids ................................................................... 138
119

===== PAGE 120 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Bid Form for Procurement of Goods
[Note: The duly accomplished form shall be submitted with the Bid]
BID FORM
Project Identification No.: 2026C-ICTS2-002-B5-CB-034
To: [Name of Procuring Entity]
Having examined the Philippine Bidding Documents (PBD) including the
Supplemental Bid Bulletin Numbers [insert numbers], the receipt of which is
hereby duly acknowledged, we, the undersigned, declare that:
a) I/We have no reservation to the PBD, including the Supplemental Bid
Bulletins, for the Procurement Project [Project Title];
b) Select one, delete the other
• I/We undertake to deliver the Goods in accordance with the delivery
schedule in the Schedule of Requirements;
• I/We offer to execute the Works for this Contract in accordance with the
PBD;
c) The total price of our Bid in words and figures, excluding any discount
offered below, is [insert information]
d) The discounts offered and the methodology for their application, if any, are:
[insert information]; or indicate N/A if no discount offered]
e) The total bid price in words and figures, after applying the applicable
discount, includes the cost of all taxes, such as, but not limited to [specify
the applicable taxes, e.g. (i) value added tax (VAT), (ii) income tax, (iii) local
taxes, and (iv) other fiscal levies and duties], which are itemized in the [Select
one, delete the other: the Price Schedules/ Detailed Estimates].
f) This Bid shall remain valid within a period stated in the PBD, and it shall
be binding upon me/us at any time before the expiration of that period;
g) If our bid is accepted, I/we commit to enter to a contract and provide a
performance security in the form, amounts, and within the times prescribed
in the PBD, and hereby acknowledge the consequences under the IRR of
RA No. 12009 on forfeiture of Bid Security or enforcement of Bid Securing
Declaration and on Blacklisting.
Until a formal Contract is prepared and executed, this Bid, together with your
written acceptance thereof and your Notice of Award, shall be binding upon the
Bidder.
I/We understand that you are not bound to accept the Lowest Calculated Bid or
any Bid you may receive.
I/We certify/confirm that we comply with the eligibility requirements pursuant to
the PBD.
120

===== PAGE 121 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
The undersigned is authorized to submit the bid on behalf of [Name of the Bidder]
as evidenced by the attached [State the Written Authority].
I/We acknowledge that failure to sign each and every page of this Bid Form,
including the attached Schedule of Prices, shall be a ground for the rejection of
our bid.
Duly authorized to sign the Bid for and behalf of:
[Insert Bidder’s Name]
[Signature over Printed Name]
[Position/Designation]
[Date]
121

===== PAGE 122 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Price Schedule for Goods Offered from Within the Philippines
Name of Bidder . Project ID No. ___. Page _ of ______
Pricing Details for Goods Offered from Within the Philippines
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Cost of Total Price
Total Price,
Source of Domestic Transportation and all Sales and other taxes Incidental delivered Final
Lot Unit price per unit
Description Product, as certified by Quantity other costs incidental payable if Contract is Services, if Destination
No. exw per item (col
the Relevant Agency to delivery, per item awarded, per item applicable, per (col 9) x (col 4)
5+6+7+8)
item
1 Human Resources
1 lot
lot Information System
Summary of Bid Prices
The Procuring Entity may modify the table below as necessary to comply with the requirements of the Procurement Project.
1 2 3 4
Particulars /
Item No. Item Total Amount
Description
Name: _________________________________________________________________
Signature: ______________________________________________________________
Duly authorized to sign the Bid for and behalf of: _________________________________
122

===== PAGE 123 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Price Schedule for Goods Offered from Abroad
Name of Bidder . Project ID No. ___. Page _ of ______
Pricing Details for Goods Offered from Abroad
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Unit price CIF port of
entry (specify port) or Total CIF or CIP Unit Price Unit price Total Price
Item Description Country of origin Quantity CIP named place price per item Delivered Duty Delivered Duty delivered DDP
(specify border point or (col. 4 x 5) Unpaid (DDU) Paid (DDP) (col 4 x 8)
place of de stination)
Summary of Bid Prices
The Procuring Entity may modify the table below as necessary to comply with the requirements of a specific Project.
1 2 3 4
Item No. Item Particulars / Description Total Amount
Name: _________________________________________________________________
Signature: _____________________________________________________________
Duly authorized to sign the Bid for and behalf of: _________________________________
123

===== PAGE 124 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
LIST OF ALL ONGOING GOVERNMENT & PRIVATE CONTRACTS INCLUDING CONTRACTS AWARDED BUT NOT YET
STARTED
Business Name : Business Address :
Contact No. : Email Address :
% of
Name of Contract/ Owner’s Name Bidder’s Role Date Awarded Accomplishment Value of
a. Address Nature of a. Date Outstanding
Project Cost Work Works/
b. Telephone Started
Description % Undelivered
Nos. b. Date of Planned Actual
Portion
Completion
Government
Private
Note: (In case of no ongoing contract, the bidder shall submit this duly signed form and indicate “No ongoing contracts” or “None” or
“Not Applicable (N/A)” under the Column for Name of Contract (first column from left)
Submitted by:
Printed Name and Signature of Authorized Representative
Designation: ___________________________________________
Date: ___________________________________________
124

===== PAGE 125 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
STATEMENT IDENTIFYING THE SINGLE LARGEST COMPLETED CONTRACT
Business Name : Business Address :
Contact No. : Email Address :
a. Date Awarded
Bidder's Role
b. Contra
a. Amount at Award ct
a. Owner's Name Effectivity
Nature b. Amount
Name of Contract b. Address c. Date Completed
of at
c. Telephone Nos. Description % d. Contract
Work Completion
Performance
c. Duration certified by
End User
Government
Private
Submitted by :
(Printed Name and Signature) Designation
Date :
:
125

===== PAGE 126 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Joint Venture Agreement Form
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
That this JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT is entered into By and
Between , of legal age, (civil status) , owner/proprietor of
and a resident of .
- and -
, of legal age, (civil status) ,
owner/proprietor of and a resident of .
THAT both parties agree to join together their manpower, equipment,
and what is needed to facilitate the Joint Venture to participate in the
Eligibility, Bidding and Undertaking of the hereunder stated project to be
conducted by the (Name of the Procuring Entity) .
NAME OF PROJECT CONTRACT AMOUNT
That both parties agree to be jointly and severally liable for the entire
assignment.
That both parties agree that _____________________ and
__________________ own the share and interest of _______________________
and ____________________________________ [indicate percentage of shares)
respectively
That both parties agree that _________________________________
and/or ____________________________ shall be the Official Representative of
the Joint Venture, and is granted full power and authority to do, execute
and perform any and all acts necessary and/or to represent the Joint
Venture in the bidding as fully and effectively and the Joint Venture may
do and if personally present with full power of substitution and revocation.
THAT this Joint Venture Agreement shall remain in effect only for
the above stated Projects until terminated by both parties.
Done this ___________ day of ______, in the year of our
Lord____________ .
126

===== PAGE 127 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
__________________________ _________________________
SIGNED IN THE PRESENCE OF:
__________________________ _________________________
WITNESS WITNESS
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES) S.S.
PASIG CITY, METRO MANILA )
A C K N O W L E D G M E N T
BEFORE ME, a Notary Public in and for Pasig City, Metro Manila,
Philippines, this ______________ day of _______________, 201_ personally
appeared:
GOVERNMENT-ISSUED
IDENTIFICATION CARD
NAME Number Issued on Issued at
_________________ ____________ ___________ ______________
_________________ ____________ ___________ ______________
_________________ ____________ ___________ ______________
Known to me and to me known to be the same persons who executed
the foregoing instrument and acknowledged to me that same is the free
and voluntary act and deed of the entities which they respectively
represent.
The foregoing instrument is a JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT
consisting of pages (exclusive of attachments), including this page on
which this acknowledgment is written and signed by the parties hereto
and their instrument witnesses on the left hand margin of each and every
page hereof.
WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL on the date and place first above
written.
NOTARY PUBLIC
Until December 31, 20__
Doc. No.
Page No.
Book No.
Series of 20____
127

===== PAGE 128 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
NET FINANCIAL CONTRACTING CAPACITY (NFCC) FORM
A. Summary of the Applicant Supplier’s/Distributor’s/Manufacturer’s
assets and liabilities.
Year 20__
1. Total Assets
2. Current Assets
3. Total Liabilities
4. Current Liabilities
5. Net Worth (1-3)
6. Net Working Capital (2-4)
B. The Net Financial Contracting Capacity (NFCC) based on the above data
is computed as follows:
NFCC = K (current asset – current liabilities) minus value of all
outstanding works under ongoing contracts including awarded
contracts yet to be started
NFCC = P _______________________________________
K = 15 regardless of contract duration
Submitted by:
________________________________________
Name of Supplier / Distributor / Manufacturer
_________________________________________
Signature of Authorized Representative
Date : _____________________________
128

===== PAGE 129 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Contract Form
[Note: The duly accomplished form is not required to be submitted with the Bid
but shall be submitted within ten (10) days after receiving the Notice of Award]
CONTRACT FOR [Insert Project Title]
This CONTRACT executed on the _____ day of __________ 20_____ by and
between:
[Name of Procuring Entity], a government agency of the Republic of the Philippines,
hereinafter called “the Entity”;
-and-
[Name of Supplier /Contractor/ Consultant] a company duly organized and existing
under the laws of [city and country], with principal office at [insert address],
hereinafter called “the Supplier”.
WHEREAS, the Entity invited Bids for certain goods and
services/works/consulting services, particularly [Brief description of Project];
WHEREAS, the Supplier/Contractor/Consultant submitted a responsive bid
and was awarded the contract for the procurement in the total amount of [Contract
price in words and figures, including currency], hereinafter referred to as the
“Contract Price.”
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the
parties hereby agree as follows:
1. Unless otherwise stated, terms and expressions used in this Contract shall
have the same meanings as those assigned to them in the Conditions of
Contract, which form an integral part of this Contract.
2. The following documents as required by the Implementing Rules and
Regulations of Republic Act No. 12009 shall form part and be read and
construed as integral parts of this Contract, viz.:
a. Philippine Bidding Document (PBD); [Select one, delete the others]
• For Procurement of Goods
i. Invitation to Bid;
ii. Instruction to Bidders;
iii. Bid Form, including all the documents/statements contained in the
Bidder’s bidding envelopes, as annexes, and all other documents
submitted (e.g., Bidder’s response to request for clarifications on
the bid), including corrections to the bid, if any, resulting from the
Procuring Entity’s bid evaluation;
iv. Bid Data Sheet;
v. Schedule of Requirements;
vi. Technical Specifications;
vii. General and Special Conditions of Contract;
129

===== PAGE 130 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
viii. Supplemental Bid Bulletins, if any; and
ix. Other contract documents that may be required by existing laws
and/or the Entity.
• For Procurement of Infrastructure Projects
i. Drawings/Plans;
ii. Specifications;/Scope of Work;
iii. Bill of Quantities;
iv. General and Special Conditions of Contract; and
v. Supplemental Bid Bulletins, if any;
• For Procurement of Consulting Services
i. General and Special Conditions of Contract;
ii. Terms of Reference;
iii. Request for Expression of Interest;
iv. Instructions to Bidders;
v. Bid Data Sheet;
vi. Addenda and/or Supplemental/Bid Bulletins, if any;
vii. Bid forms, including all the documents/statements contained in
the Bidder’s bidding envelopes, as annexes, and all other
documents/ statements submitted (e.g., bidder’s response to
request for clarifications on the bid), including corrections to the
bid, if any, resulting from the Procuring Entity’s bid evaluation;
viii. Eligibility requirements, documents and/or statements;
ix. Performance Security;
x. Notice of Award of Contract and the Bidder’s conforme thereto; and
xi. Other contract documents that may be required by existing laws
and/or the Entity.
b. Winning bidder’s bid, including the Eligibility Requirements, Technical
and Financial Proposals, and all other documents or statements
submitted;
c. Performance Security;
d. Notice of Award of Contract; and the Bidder’s Conforme thereto; and
e. Other contract documents that may be required by existing laws and/or
the Procuring Entity concerned in the PBD, such as but not limited to
the Notice to Proceed and Warranty Security.
3. In consideration of the Contract Price of [Contract Price in words and figures],
or such other sums as may be determined in accordance with the terms of
the Contract, the Supplier/Contractor/Consultant agrees to deliver and
perform the items and related services for the [Project Title] described herein
in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the Contract and
its annexed documents.
4. The [Name of the Procuring Entity] agrees to pay the above-mentioned sum to
the Supplier/Contractor/Consultant in accordance with the schedule and
manner provided in the Bidding Documents and its annexes.
130

===== PAGE 131 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
5. Any dispute, difference, or claim arising out of or relating to this Contract,
including its existence, validity, interpretation, breach, or termination
thereof, may be submitted to arbitration or other form of alternative dispute
resolution in accordance with the applicable law, such as Republic Act No.
9285 (Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 2004) or Executive Order No
1008, series 1985 (Construction Industry Arbitration Law).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Contract to be
executed in accordance with the laws of the Republic of the Philippines on the day
and year first above written.
For the Procuring Entity For the Bidder
Head of the Procuring Entity or Duly Duly authorized to sign the Contract for
Authorized Representative and behalf of [Bidders Name]:
[Signature over Printed Name]
[Position/Designation] [Signature over Printed Name]
[Date] [Position/Designation]
[Date]
Signed in the presence of:
[Name and Signature] [Name and Signature]
Witness – Procuring Entity Witness – Supplier
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
BEFORE ME, A Notary Public for and in the _______________________,
City/Province of _____________________, this ______ day of _____________, 20______,
personally appeared the above-named persons who have satisfactorily proven to
me their identity, through their identifying documents written below their names
and signatures, that they are the same persons who executed and voluntarily
signed the foregoing instrument consisting of ____ pages, including this page
where this Acknowledgement is written, which they acknowledged before me as
their free and voluntary act and deed.
WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL this ___ day of [month] [year].
NAME OF NOTARY PUBLIC
Notarial Commission No. ___________
Notary Public for ______ until _______
Roll of Attorneys No. _____
PTR No. __, [date issued], [place issued]
IBP No. __, [date issued], [place issued]
Doc. No. _______
Page No. _______
Book No. _______
Series of _______
131

===== PAGE 132 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Omnibus Sworn Statement Form
[Note: The duly accomplished form shall be submitted with the Bid]
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES )
CITY/MUNICIPALITY OF ______ ) S.S.
OMNIBUS SWORN STATEMENT
I, [Name of Affiant], of legal age, [Civil Status], [Nationality], and with
residence at [Address of Affiant], after having been duly sworn in accordance with
law, do hereby depose and state that:
1. Select one, delete the others:
• If sole proprietorship: I am the sole proprietor or authorized
representative of [Name of Bidder] with office address at [Address
of Bidder];
• If partnership, corporation, cooperative, or joint venture: I am the
duly authorized and designated representative of [Name of
Bidder] with office address at [Address of Bidder];
• If individual consultant not registered under a sole proprietorship,
in case of Consulting Services: I am the individual consultant or
authorized representative of [Name of Bidder] with office address
at [Address of Bidder];
2. Select one, delete the others:
• If sole proprietorship: As the owner and sole proprietor or
authorized representative of [Name of Bidder], I have full power
and authority to do, execute and perform any and all acts
necessary to participate, submit the bid, and to sign and execute
the ensuing contract for [Project Title] of the [Name of the
Procuring Entity][insert “as supported by the attached duly
notarized Special Power of Attorney” for authorized
representative];
• If partnership, corporation, cooperative, or joint venture: I am
granted full power and authority to do, execute and perform any
and all acts necessary to participate, submit the bid, and to sign
and execute the ensuing contract for [Project Title] of the [Name
of the Procuring Entity], as supported by the attached duly
notarized Special Power of Attorney, Board/Partnership
Resolution, or Secretary’s Certificate, whichever is applicable;
• If individual consultant not registered under a sole proprietorship,
in case of Consulting Services: As the individual consultant or
authorized representative of [Name of Bidder], I have full power
and authority to do, execute and perform any and all acts
necessary to participate, submit the bid, and to sign and execute
the ensuing contract for [Project Title] of the [Name of the
132

===== PAGE 133 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Procuring Entity], as supported by the attached duly notarized
Special Power of Attorney for authorized representative;
3. [Name of Bidder] is not “blacklisted” or barred from bidding by the
Government of the Philippines or any of its agencies, offices,
corporations, or Local Government Units, foreign
government/foreign or international financing institution whose
blacklisting rules have been recognized by the Government
Procurement Policy Board; by itself or by relation, membership,
association, affiliation, or controlling interest with another
blacklisted person or entity;
4. Each of the documents submitted in satisfaction of the bidding
requirements is an authentic copy of the original, complete, and all
statements and information provided therein are true and correct;
5. [Name of Bidder] is authorizing the Head of the Procuring Entity or
its duly authorized representative(s) to verify all the documents
submitted;
6. Select one, delete the others:
• If sole proprietorship : The [Name of Bidder] and its spouse are
not related by consanguinity or affinity up to the third civil
degree to the Head of the Procuring Entity, Procurement Agent
(if engaged), End-User or Implementing Unit, project
consultants, head of the Project Management Office, or the
members of the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC), the
Technical Working Group, and the BAC Secretariat;
• If partnership : The partnership itself and the partners of [Name
of Bidder] are not related by consanguinity or affinity up to the
third civil degree to the Head of the Procuring Entity,
Procurement Agent (if engaged), End-User or Implementing
Unit, project consultants, head of the Project Management
Office, or the members of the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC),
the Technical Working Group, and the BAC Secretariat;
• If cooperative: The cooperative itself and members of the board of
directors, general manager, or chief executive officer of [Name of
Bidder] are not related by consanguinity or affinity up to the third
civil degree to the Head of the Procuring Entity, Procurement
Agent (if engaged), End-User or Implementing Unit, project
consultants, head of the Project Management Office, or the
members of the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC), the
Technical Working Group, and the BAC Secretariat;
• If corporation, or joint venture: The corporation or joint venture
itself, and officers, directors, and controlling stockholders of
[Name of Bidder] are not related by consanguinity or affinity up
to the third civil degree to the Head of the Procuring Entity,
Procurement Agent (if engaged), End-User or Implementing
Unit, project consultants, head of the Project Management
133

===== PAGE 134 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Office, or the members of the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC),
the Technical Working Group, and the BAC Secretariat;
• If individual consultant not registered under a sole proprietorship,
in case of Consulting Services: The individual consultant and its
spouse are not related by consanguinity or affinity up to the third
civil degree to the Head of the Procuring Entity, Procurement
Agent (if engaged), End-User or Implementing Unit, project
consultants, head of the Project Management Office, or the
members of the Bids and Awards Committee (BAC), the
Technical Working Group, and the BAC Secretariat;
7. It is understood that failure to faithfully disclose its relationship with
the Head of the Procuring Entity, members of the BAC, the TWG,
and the BAC Secretariat, the head of the PMO or the end-user unit
or implementing unit, and the project consultants of the Procuring
Entity, or of the procurement agent by consanguinity or affinity up
to the third civil degree, as well as its submission of beneficial
ownership information containing false entries shall be subject to
blacklisting under Section 100 of the Implementing Rules and
Regulations (IRR) of Republic Act (RA) No. 12009, without prejudice
to criminal and civil liabilities under applicable laws, including their
accessory penalties, if any.
Select one, delete the rest:
• In case of corporations: [Name of Bidder] declares its beneficial
ownership information consistent with its updated General
Information Sheet or Beneficial Ownership Declaration Form or any
other document duly submitted to the SEC and has maintained a
valid and updated file therein in compliance with Sections 20.2.9.1,
81, and 82 of the IRR of RA No. 12009.
• In case of Foreign Bidders: [Name of Bidder] submitted an appropriate
equivalent document in English issued by the country of the bidder
concerned in accordance with Section 20.2.9.2 of the IRR of RA No.
12009.
8. [Name of Bidder] complies with existing labor laws and standards;
and
9. [Name of Bidder] is aware of and has undertaken the following
responsibilities as a Bidder:
a) Carefully examine all of the Bidding Documents;
b) Acknowledge all conditions, local or otherwise, affecting the
implementation of the Contract;
c) Made an estimate of the facilities available and needed for the
contract to be bid, if any; and
d) Inquire or secure Supplemental Bid Bulletin(s) issued for the
[Project Title].
134

===== PAGE 135 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
10. [Name of Bidder] did not give or pay directly or indirectly, any
commission, amount, fee, or any form of consideration, pecuniary or
otherwise, to any person or official, personnel or representative of
the government in relation to any procurement project or activity.
11. In case advance payment was made or given to [Name of Bidder],
failure to perform or deliver any of the obligations and undertakings
in the contract shall be sufficient grounds to constitute criminal
liability under existing laws.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this __ day of ___,
20__ at ____________, Philippines.
Duly authorized to sign the Bid for and behalf
of:
[Insert Bidder’s Name]
[Affiant’s Signature over Printed Name]
[Position/Designation]
[Date]
JURAT
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this _____ day of [month] [year] at [place
of execution], Philippines. Affiant/s is/are personally known to me and was/were
identified by me through competent evidence of identity as defined in the 2004
Rules on Notarial Practice (A.M. No. 02-8-13-SC). Affiant/s exhibited to me
his/her [insert type of government identification card used], with his/her
photograph and signature appearing thereon, with no. ______.
WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL this ___ day of [month] [year].
NAME OF NOTARY PUBLIC
Notarial Commission No. ___________
Notary Public for ______ until _______
Roll of Attorneys No. _____
PTR No. __, [date issued], [place issued]
IBP No. __, [date issued], [place issued]
Doc. No. ________
Page No. _______
Book No. _______
Series of _______.
135

===== PAGE 136 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Bid Securing Declaration Form
[The duly accomplished form shall be submitted with the Bid if bidder
opts to provide this type of bid security]
_______________________________________________________________________
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES )
CITY/MUNICIPALITY OF ____________________ ) S.S.
BID SECURING DECLARATION
Project Identification No.: 2026C-ICTS2-002-B5-CB-034
To: [Insert name of the Procuring Entity]
I/We, the undersigned, declare that:
1) I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be
supported by a Bid Security, which may be in the form of a Bid Securing
Declaration;
[Insert paragraph for Unsolicited Offer with Bid Matching]
I/We understand that upon conferment of the original offeror status
under Section 30.6 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR)
of Republic Act (RA) No. 12009, the offeror shall submit a Bid
Securing Declaration within ten (10) days from the receipt of the
certificate of conferment;
2) Select one, delete the other:
• I/We accept that: (a) I/we will be automatically disqualified from
bidding for any procurement contract with any Procuring Entity upon
receipt of your Blacklisting Order; and, (b) I/we will pay the applicable
fine provided under the Guidelines on the Use of Bid Securing
Declaration, within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the written
demand by the Procuring Entity for the commission of acts resulting
to the enforcement of the Bid Securing Declaration under Sections
52.2 (a), 63.2, 69.1 and 100, except 100.3 (c),of the IRR of Republic
Act No. 12009; without prejudice to other legal action the government
may undertake; and
(For Unsolicited Offer with Bid Matching)
• I/We accept that: I/we will be automatically disqualified from any
procurement opportunity of the Procuring Entity for a period of one
(1) year on the first offense, two (2) years on the second offense, and
perpetually on the third offense without prejudice to other legal action
the government may undertake.
3) I/We understand that this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid
on the following circumstances:
136

===== PAGE 137 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
a) Upon expiration of the bid validity period, or any extension thereof
pursuant to your request;
b) I am/we are declared ineligible or post-disqualified upon receipt of
your notice to such effect, and (i) I/we failed to timely file a request
for reconsideration or (ii) I/we filed a waiver to avail of said right;
[Insert this paragraph for Unsolicited Offer with Bid Matching]
b) Upon contract award and the LCCRB is not the original offeror; or
c) I am/we are declared the bidder with the [Insert Award Criterion1] and
I/we have furnished the performance security and signed the
Contract.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I/We have hereunto set my/our hand/s this ____ day of
[month] [year] at [place of execution].
Duly authorized to sign the Bid for and behalf of:
[Insert Bidder’s Name]
[Signature over Printed Name]
[Position/Designation]
[Date]
JURAT
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this _____ day of [month] [year] at [place
of execution], Philippines. Affiant/s is/are personally known to me and was/were
identified by me through competent evidence of identity as defined in the 2004
Rules on Notarial Practice (A.M. No. 02-8-13-SC). Affiant/s exhibited to me
his/her [insert type of government identification card used], with his/her
photograph and signature appearing thereon, with no. ______.
WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL this ___ day of [month] [year].
NAME OF NOTARY PUBLIC
Notarial Commission No. ___________
Notary Public for ______ until _______
Roll of Attorneys No. _____
PTR No. __, [date issued], [place issued]
IBP No. __, [date issued], [place issued]
Doc. No. ________
Page No. _______
Book No. _______
Series of _______.
137

===== PAGE 138 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
Sealing and Marking of Bids
USB Flash
Documents Original Copy 1 Copy 2 Component Bid
Drive
Technical
Financial
ITB Clause
27.1
Post-
Qualification
(Optional
advance
submission on
Bid Opening)
Illustration 1
138

===== PAGE 139 =====
Section VIII. Philippine Bidding Document Related Forms
[ORIGINAL / COPY NO.] ___ - _______ [COMPONENT/DOCUMENTS]
Procurement Project: [PROCUREMENT PROJECT TITLE]
Bidding for: LOT/ITEM/ETC. __[number]__ - [ITEM DESCRIPTION]
[BIDDER’S COMPANY NAME]
[COMPANY’S PhilGEPS-REGISTERED ADDRESS]
[COMPANY’S OTHER CONTACT INFO phone, fax, email, website, social media]
[The Chairperson]
Bids and Awards Committee [___]
c/o BAC Secretariat Division
Procurement Management Service
Department of Education
Room M-512, 5th Floor, Mabini Building, DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue, Pasig City
Telephone Numbers: 8636-6542 or 8633-9343
Email address: depedcentral.bacsecretariat@deped.gov.ph
BACSD Microsite: https://www.deped.gov.ph/bac-secretariat/
BACSD Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/ph.gov.deped.procms.bacsd
Project Number [PROJECT NUMBER]
DO NOT OPEN BEFORE [DATE AND TIME OF BID OPENING]
[VENUE OF OPENING OF BIDS]
Illustration 2
139

===== PAGE 140 =====
BAC Secretariat Division
Procurement Management Service
Department of Education
Room M-512, 5th Floor, Mabini Building
DepEd Complex, Meralco Avenue, Pasig City
Telephone No.: (02) 8633-9343; 8636-6542
Email Address: depedcentral.bacsecretariat@deped.gov.ph
BACSD Microsite: https://www.deped.gov.ph/bac-secretariat/
BACSD Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/ph.gov.deped.procms.bacsd