

===== PAGE 60 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
19.3 If delays are likely to be incurred beyond its control, the supplier,
manufacturer, or distributor shall promptly notify the Procuring Entity
in writing, providing details of the causes and duration of the expected
delay. The Procuring Entity may, at its discretion, grant a time
extension based on meritorious grounds, with or without the imposition
of liquidated damages.
20) Settlement of Disputes
20.1 Any dispute arising from the implementation of a contract covered by
the Act and the IRR shall primarily be resolved and settled amicably by
mutual consultation or agreement.
20.2 In case of failure to settle dispute amicably, the parties may mutually
agree in writing to resort to other modes of alternative dispute
resolution (ADR) to promote efficiency in the procurement process.
Accordingly, they are encouraged to select the most expeditious mode
of ADR available.
If arbitration is chosen as the ADR method, this shall be incorporated
as a provision in the contract and referred to the Arbitrator specified in
the SCC.
20.3 In case of disagreement or after exhausting the remedies provided in
the preceding Section, the dispute may be submitted to arbitration or
other forms of ADR which includes mediation, conciliation, early
neutral evaluation, mini-trial, or any combination thereof in accordance
with the provisions of RA No. 9285, otherwise known as the “Alternative
Dispute Resolution Act of 2004.”
20.4 Should the Parties fail to resolve their dispute or difference by such
mutual consultation or agreement after thirty (30) days, either the
Procuring Entity or the Supplier may signify its intention to commence
arbitration by giving notice to the other Party, as hereinafter provided,
as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of this matter
may be commenced unless such notice is given.
20.5 Any dispute or difference in respect of which a notice of intention to
commence arbitration has been given in accordance with this Clause
shall be settled by arbitration. Arbitration may be commenced prior to
or after delivery of the Goods under this Contract.
20.6 Notwithstanding any reference to arbitration herein, the Parties shall
continue to perform their respective obligations under the Contract
unless otherwise agreed upon in writing.
21) Liability of the Supplier
21.1 The Supplier’s liability under this Contract shall be as provided by the
laws of the Republic of the Philippines, subject to additional provisions,
if any, set forth in the SCC.
60

===== PAGE 61 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
21.2 Except in cases of criminal negligence or willful misconduct, and in the
case of infringement of patent rights, if applicable, the aggregate liability
of the Supplier to the Procuring Entity shall not exceed the total
Contract Price, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the cost
of repair or replacement of the defective Goods.
22) Termination for Breach of Contract
The Procuring Entity may terminate for breach of contract when the Supplier
fails to deliver or perform any or all of the Goods within the period(s) specified
in the contract, or within any extension thereof granted by the Procuring
Entity, pursuant to a request made by the Supplier prior to the delay, and
such failure amounts to at least ten percent (10%) of the contract price,
consistent with the provision of this IRR on liquidated damages. The
Procuring Entity may likewise impose appropriate sanctions therein.
23) Termination Due to Force Majeure
23.1 For purposes of this Contract, the terms “force majeure” and “fortuitous
event” may be used interchangeably. In this regard, a fortuitous event
or force majeure shall be interpreted to mean as an event which the
Supplier could not have been foreseen, or though foreseen, was
inevitable. It shall not include ordinary unfavorable weather conditions,
and any other causes the effect/s of which could have been avoided
with the exercise of reasonable diligence by the Supplier. Such events
may include, but not limited to, acts of the Procuring Entity in its
sovereign capacity, wars or revolutions, fires, floods, epidemics,
quarantine restrictions, and freight embargoes.
23.2 The Procuring Entity may terminate this Contract and impose
liquidated damages when, as a result of force majeure, the Supplier is
unable to deliver or perform any or all of the Goods, amounting to at
least ten percent (10%) of the Contract Price, for a period of not less
than sixty (60) calendar days, or earlier, as deemed necessary by the
Procuring Entity, after receipt of the written notice from the Procuring
Entity stating that the circumstance of force majeure is deemed to have
ceased.
23.3 The Supplier shall not be subject to forfeiture of its performance
security, payment of liquidated damages, or contract termination due
to force majeure, provided that the Supplier’s delay in performance or
other failure to perform its obligations under this Contract is the result
of a force majeure.
23.4 If a force majeure situation arises, the Supplier shall promptly notify
the Procuring Entity in writing of such condition and the cause thereof.
Unless otherwise directed by the Procuring Entity, the Supplier shall
continue to perform its obligations under the Contract as far as may be
practicable, when not prevented by the force majeure, and shall seek all
reasonable alternative means in the performance of its obligation.
24) Termination for Convenience
61

===== PAGE 62 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
24.1 The Procuring Entity, through a written notice sent to the Supplier, may
terminate this Contract, in whole or in part, at any time, if it has
determined the existence of any of the following conditions that make
contract implementation economically, financially, or technically
impractical or unnecessary:
a) When physical and economic conditions have significantly
changed so as to render the project no longer economically,
financially, or technically feasible, as determined by the HoPE;
b) When the HoPE has determined the existence of conditions that
make project implementation impractical or unnecessary, such
as, but not limited to, fortuitous event/s, changes in laws, and
government policies;
c) When funding for the Project has been withheld or reduced by
higher authorities through no fault of the Procuring Entity; or
d) Any circumstance analogous to the foregoing.
24.2 The Goods that have been performed or are ready to be delivered or
performed within thirty (30) calendar days after the Supplier’s receipt
of Notice to Terminate shall be accepted by the Procuring Entity at the
contract terms and prices thereof. For Goods not yet delivered,
performed and/or ready to be delivered or performed, the Procuring
Entity may elect:
a) To have any portion delivered and/or performed and paid at the
contract terms and prices thereof; or
b) To cancel the remainder and pay to the Supplier an agreed
amount for partially completed and/or performed goods and for
materials and parts previously procured by the Supplier.
25) Termination for Unlawful Acts
25.1 The Procuring Entity may terminate this Contract in case it is
determined prima facie that the Supplier, including any joint venture
partner therein, has engaged, before or during the implementation of
this Contract, in unlawful deeds and behaviors relative to contract
acquisition and implementation. Unlawful acts include, but are not
limited to, the following:
a) Corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and coercive practices as defined in
ITB Clause 3.1;
b) Drawing up or using forged documents;
c) Using adulterated materials, means or methods, or engaging in
production contrary to rules of science or the trade; and
d) Any other act analogous to the foregoing.
26) Procedures for Termination of Contracts
62

===== PAGE 63 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
26.1 The following provisions shall govern the procedures for termination of
this Contract:
a) Verification - Upon receipt of a written report of acts or causes
which may constitute grounds for termination as aforementioned,
or upon its own initiative, the End-User or Implementing Unit
shall, within a period of seven (7) calendar days, verify the
existence of such grounds and cause the execution of a Verified
Report, with all relevant evidence attached.
b) Notice to Terminate - Upon recommendation by the End-User or
Implementing Unit, the HoPE shall terminate contracts only by
written notice to the supplier conveying the termination of the
contract. The notice shall state:
i) That the contract is being terminated for any of the grounds
aforementioned, and a statement of the acts that constitute
the grounds constituting the same;
ii) The extent of termination, whether in whole or in part;
iii) An instruction to the Supplier, to show cause as to why the
contract should not be terminated; and
iv) Special instructions of the Procuring Entity, if any.
The Notice to Terminate shall be accompanied by a copy of the
Verified Report.
c) Show Cause - Within a period of seven (7) calendar days from
receipt of the Notice of Termination, the Supplier shall submit to
the HoPE a verified position paper stating why the contract should
not be terminated. If the Supplier, fails to show cause after the
lapse of the seven (7) day period, either by inaction or by default,
the HoPE shall issue an order terminating the contract.
d) Rescission of Notice of Termination - The Procuring Entity may,
at any time before receipt of the Supplier’s verified position paper,
withdraw the Notice to Terminate if it is determined that certain
items or works subject of the notice had been completed,
delivered, or performed before the Supplier’s receipt of the notice.
e) Decision - Within a non-extendible period of ten (10) calendar
days from receipt of the verified position paper, the HoPE shall
decide whether or not to terminate the contract. It shall serve a a
written notice to the Supplier of its decision and, unless otherwise
provided, the contract is deemed terminated from receipt of the
Supplier of the notice of the decision. The termination shall only
be based on the grounds stated in the Notice to Terminate.
f) Contract Termination Review Committee (CTRC) - The HoPE
may create a committee to assist in the discharge of its functions
under the IRR. All decisions recommended by the CTRC shall be
subject to the approval of the HoPE.
63

===== PAGE 64 =====
Section IV. General Conditions of Contract
g) Take-over of Contracts - If a Procuring Entity terminates the
contract due to default, insolvency, or for a cause, it may enter
into a Negotiated Procurement (Take-over of Contracts) pursuant
to Section 35(c) of RA No. 12009.
h) Procuring Entity’s Options in Termination for Convenience in
Contracts for Goods - The Goods that have been performed or
are ready for delivery within thirty (30) calendar days after the
supplier’s receipt of Notice to Terminate shall be accepted by the
Procuring Entity at the contract terms and prices. For Goods not
yet performed or ready for delivery, the Procuring Entity may elect:
i) To have any portion delivered or performed and paid at the
contract terms and prices; or
ii) To cancel the remainder and pay to the supplier an agreed
amount for partially completed or performed goods and for
materials and parts previously procured by the supplier.
27) Assignment of Rights
The Supplier shall not assign its rights or obligations under this Contract, in
whole or in part, except upon prior written consent of the Procuring Entity.
28) Amendment to Order
No variation in or modification of the terms of this Contract shall be made
except by written amendment signed by the parties in accordance with the
provisions on Amendment to Order, subject to applicable laws, rules and
regulations.
29) Application
These General Conditions shall apply to the extent that they are not
suspended by the provisions from other parts of this Contract.
64

===== PAGE 65 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
65

===== PAGE 66 =====
Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
1(a) The Procuring Entity is the Department of Education, through
its Information and Communication Technology Service –
Solutions Development Division (ICTS-SDD).
1(b) The Supplier is [to be inserted at the time of contract award].
1(c) The Funding Source is the General Appropriations Act (GAA)
Fiscal Year (FY) 2025, particularly the allocation for the DepEd
Computerization Program (DCP) - Strengthening Assistance for
Government Infrastructure and Social Programs (SAGIP) 2025
(Continuing Fund), in the amount of Philippine Pesos Five
Hundred Million and 00/100 (PhP500,000,000.00).
1(d) The Project Site is DepEd Central Office, TechZone Building
Malugay St., San Antonio, Makati City.
2 No further instructions.
5.1 The Procuring Entity’s address for Notices is:
ATTY. MARCELINO G. VELOSO III
Assistant Secretary
Office of the Assistant Secretary for ICT
18th Floor TechZone Building Malugay St. San Antonio Makati
Telephone Number: 8633-7256
Email address: oasict@deped.gov.ph
The Supplier’s address for Notices is: [Insert address including,
name of contact, fax and telephone number].
5.2 No further instructions.
6.2 Delivery and Documents
For purposes of this Contract, “EXW,” “FOB,” “FCA,” “CIF,”
“CIP,” “DDP” and other trade terms used to describe the
obligations of the parties shall have the meanings assigned to
them by the current edition of INCOTERMS published by the
International Chamber of Commerce, Paris. The Delivery terms
of this Contract shall be as follows:
The delivery terms applicable to this Contract are delivered to
DepEd Central Office – TechZone Makati City. Risk and title will
pass from the Supplier to the Procuring Entity upon receipt and
final acceptance of the Goods at their final destination.
Delivery of the Goods shall be made by the Supplier in
accordance with the terms specified in Section VI. Schedule
of Requirements. The details of shipping and/or other
documents to be furnished by the Supplier are as follows:
For Goods supplied from within the Philippines:
66

===== PAGE 67 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
Upon delivery of the Goods to the Project Site, the Supplier shall
notify the Procuring Entity and present the following original
documents to the Procuring Entity:
i) Supplier’s invoice showing the goods’ description,
quantity, unit price, and total amount;
ii) Delivery receipt/note, railway receipt, or truck receipt;
iii) Supplier’s factory inspection report;
iv) Manufacturer’s and/or Supplier’s warranty certificate;
v) Certificate of origin (for imported Goods);
vi) Delivery receipt detailing number and description of
items received signed by the authorized receiving
personnel;
vii) Certificate of Acceptance/Inspection Report signed by
the Procuring Entity’s representative at the Project Site;
and
viii) Four copies of the Invoice Receipt for Property signed by
the Procuring Entity’s representative at the Project Site.
For purposes of this Clause the Procuring Entity’s
Representative at the Project Site is Mr. Noel E. Reyes, ICTS-
SDD.
The Contract price for the goods shall include the prices
charged by the Supplier for incidental services and shall not
exceed the prevailing rates charged to other parties by the
Supplier for similar services.
Patent Rights
The Supplier shall indemnify the Procuring Entity against all
third-party claims of infringement of patent, trademark, or
industrial design rights arising from use of the goods or any
part thereof.
7 Subcontracting is not allowed.
10 Advance payment is not allowed.
10.2 Not Applicable.
10.3 Advance payment is not allowed.
11 Schedule of Payment
The milestone payments are tied to accepted, functional, tested,
documented, and deployable deliverables.
DepEd shall not withhold acceptance or payment solely
because the milestone was completed earlier than the stated
window, provided that the milestone deliverables are complete,
67

===== PAGE 68 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
functional, tested, documented, deployed to the agreed
environment, traceable to the TOR or approved backlog, and
accepted by the authorized DepEd Product Owner or process
owner.
If the Service Provider completes a milestone earlier than the
applicable maximum delivery window, it may submit the
milestone deliverables for DepEd review, acceptance, and
payment processing.
Progress Payment
Progress Payment based on fixed milestones below:
Payment processing for any milestone shall commence only
after full completion and formal acceptance of all corresponding
milestone deliverables.
Payments shall be made on a milestone basis and shall be
contingent upon completion, submission, review, and written
acceptance of the required deliverables for the relevant
milestone.
Maximum
Delivery Main
Milestone Payment
Window Deliverable
from NTP
Upon NTP,
M1 not later Mobilization 10%
than Day 30
Project
Inception,
Product Proof,
Not later
M2 Technical 20%
than Day 90
Alignment, and
Implementation
Planning
Not later
Release 1: Core
M3 than Day 15%
HR Foundation
150
Release 2:
Not later Payroll, Leave,
M4 than Day Attendance, 10%
190 and Employee
Self-Service
Release 3:
Strategic
Not later Talent,
M5 than Day Learning, 15%
235 Wellness,
Rewards, and
Succession
68

===== PAGE 69 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
Integrated
Testing,
Security
Not later
Validation,
M6 than Day 10%
Migration
270
Readiness, and
Payroll Parallel
Run
Not later Pilot
than Day Deployment,
300, or Capacity
M7 earlier upon Building, 10%
completion Documentation,
and and SLA
acceptance Readiness
Not earlier
Production
than Day
Rollout, Final
335, not
Handover, SLA
M8 later than 10%
Transition, and
Day 365
Final
from the
Acceptance
NTP
Early completion shall not remove any continuing warranty,
support, documentation, turnover, maintenance, remediation,
or post-deployment obligations required under the TOR or
contract.
Payment Conditions
Payment processing shall not be deferred solely because the
corresponding maximum delivery window has not fully elapsed.
Once a milestone is completed, submitted, reviewed, and
accepted, the Service Provider may bill for the corresponding
milestone payment, subject to submission of complete billing
documents and compliance with applicable budgeting,
accounting, auditing, procurement, and contract rules.
No payment shall be processed based solely on:
1. passage of time;
2. issuance of the NTP;
3. submission of plans without acceptance;
4. presentation of a vanilla or baseline HRIS without
DepEd-specific validation;
5. presentation of prototypes or mockups without working
functionality;
6. deployment without test evidence;
7. configuration without accepted user stories;
69

===== PAGE 70 =====
Section V. Special Conditions of Contract
GCC Clause
8. unsupported claims of completion without sprint
records, test logs, deployment evidence, documentation,
or Product Owner sign-off.
11.4 No further instructions.
11.5 Payment using Letter of Credit is not allowed.
13.4(c) No further instructions.
16.1 The inspections and tests that will be conducted shall be in
accordance with Section VI. Schedule of Requirements,
including the prescribed milestone deliverables, acceptance
requirements, and Definition of Done.
17.3 Special bank guarantee equivalent to at least one percent (1%)
but not to exceed five (5%) of the total Contract Price.
17.3 (c) Not Applicable.
17.4 Warranty shall be covered by Special bank guarantee
equivalent to at least one percent (1%) but not to exceed five
(5%) of the total Contract Price with validity until the end of
contract period.
17.5 No further instructions.
20.2 Not Applicable.
21.1 No further instructions.
70

===== PAGE 71 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
A. Delivery Schedule
The delivery schedule expressed below stipulates the date of delivery to the project
site.
Lot No. Description Delivery Schedule
The HRIS shall be implemented within three
Human Resources
1 lot hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days
Information System
from receipt of the Notice to Proceed (NTP)
B. Contract Duration
Complete delivery shall be made within the one (1) year contract duration, from
the date of receipt of the Notice to Proceed.
C. Deliverables and Delivery Period
1. Purpose
This document clarifies the deliverables, delivery period, acceptance requirements,
and dependency rules for the Human Resource Information System (HRIS) project.
This clarification does not replace the TOR. It shall be read together with the TOR
provisions on HRIS scope, modules, implementation plan, data governance,
service level agreement, training, documentation, reporting, monitoring, and final
acceptance.
2. Delivery Premise
The HRIS engagement is premised on the Service Provider having an existing,
operational, and configurable HRIS platform or solution with substantially
available modules relevant to DepEd’s requirements.
However, regardless of whether the Service Provider begins from an existing
baseline, standard, or “vanilla” HRIS, the final HRIS delivered to DepEd shall be
fully turned over with all source code, configurations, scripts, templates,
workflows, reports, APIs, database schemas, deployment artifacts,
documentation, and other technical materials necessary for DepEd to operate,
maintain, audit, modify, enhance, migrate, and continue the system.
Accordingly, the Service Provider shall ensure that it has the legal and technical
right to turn over the complete HRIS source code and related technical assets to
DepEd. A proprietary or closed-source baseline shall not be used if it prevents full
71

===== PAGE 72 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
source code turnover, continuity, auditability, maintainability, or DepEd’s
independent operation of the system.
For avoidance of doubt:
1. a product demonstration is not equivalent to implementation;
2. a vanilla HRIS is not equivalent to an accepted DepEd HRIS;
3. staging deployment is not equivalent to production readiness;
4. configuration is not equivalent to user acceptance;
5. payroll readiness requires parallel-run validation;
6. Final acceptance requires full source code turnover, documentation, SLA
transition, and closure of critical defects.
3. Delivery Period and Early Completion
The delivery windows below are maximum target periods counted from NTP. They
shall not be treated as mandatory waiting periods.
4. Delivery Schedule
Maximum Delivery
Milestone Main Deliverable
Window from NTP
Mobilization
Upon NTP, not later
M1 Project Inception, Product Proof, Technical
than Day 30
Alignment, and Implementation Planning
Not later than Day
M2 Release 1: Core HR Foundation
90
Not later than Day Release 2: Payroll, Leave, Attendance, and
M3
150 Employee Self-Service
Not later than Day Release 3: Strategic Talent, Learning,
M4
190 Wellness, Rewards, and Succession
Integrated Testing, Security Validation,
Not later than Day
M5 Migration Readiness, and Payroll Parallel
235
Run
Not later than Day Pilot Deployment, Capacity Building,
M6
270 Documentation, and SLA Readiness
Not later than Day
300, or earlier upon Production Rollout, Final Handover, SLA
M7
completion and Transition
acceptance
72

===== PAGE 73 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
Maximum Delivery
Milestone Main Deliverable
Window from NTP
Not earlier than Day
335, not later than Project Closure, SLA Compliance
M8
Day 365 from the Verification, and Final Acceptance
NTP
The percentages above refer to billing milestones. Any retention money, warranty
security, or substitute security instrument shall be governed by the contract and
applicable procurement, budgeting, accounting, and auditing rules, and shall not
be treated as an additional payment tranche.
5. Milestone Deliverables and Acceptance
M1. Project Inception, Product Proof, Technical Alignment, and Implementation
Planning
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 30 from NTP
M1 shall cover project inception, stakeholder alignment, demonstration of the
baseline HRIS, confirmation of the delivery approach, technical alignment, and
approval of the implementation controls necessary to proceed.
At minimum, M1 shall include:
1. issuance of the NTP or contract effectivity;
2. submission and DepEd acceptance of the required irrevocable standby
letter of credit, bank guarantee, or equivalent security instrument;
3. submission of initial mobilization details, including assigned project
manager, principal technical contact, implementation team roster, and
initial work schedule.
4. signed-off Inception Report;
5. approved Implementation Plan;
6. Agile Team Charter identifying Service Provider and DepEd counterparts;
7. initial Product Backlog covering all HRIS modules;
8. Pre-Built Module Capability Matrix;
9. baseline HRIS product capability demonstration report;
10. fit-gap validation approach;
11. configuration and customization blueprint;
12. development, staging, and production environment plan;
13. initial data migration plan;
14. initial integration and API plan;
15. initial security, privacy, access-control, and audit-log plan;
16. risk register and dependency register;
73

===== PAGE 74 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
17. sprint cadence and reporting protocol;
18. draft acceptance criteria for Release 1.
M1 shall be accepted upon DepEd approval of the inception, product proof,
governance, technical alignment, and implementation planning outputs.
M1 acceptance shall not constitute acceptance of the baseline or vanilla HRIS as
the final DepEd HRIS.
M2. Release 1: Core HR Foundation
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 90 from NTP
M2 shall cover the first accepted HRIS release, prioritizing the foundational
modules and workflows necessary to establish core HR records and recruitment
processes.
At minimum, M2 shall include configured, customized, tested, and documented
Release 1 functionality for:
1. Personnel Information Management;
2. employee 201 file records;
3. Personal Data Sheet-related records;
4. Applicant Portal;
5. Recruitment, Selection, and Placement;
6. Appointment Processing;
7. New Hire Processing;
8. related recruitment, appointment, and personnel reports;
9. role-based access control for Release 1 users;
10. audit logging for Release 1 transactions;
11. initial sample data migration for employee and applicant records;
12. release notes;
13. updated user and administrator guides;
14. Sprint Review Reports;
15. signed-off user stories meeting the Definition of Done;
16. Release 1 test results and defect closure report.
M2 shall be accepted only upon deployment to the agreed staging or approved
release environment, completion of applicable tests, closure of critical defects,
submission of documentation, and written sign-off by the authorized DepEd
Product Owner or process owner.
M3. Release 2: Payroll, Leave, Attendance, and Employee Self-Service
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 150 from NTP
M3 shall cover the second HRIS release, focusing on payroll-related and employee-
facing functions.
74

===== PAGE 75 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
At minimum, M3 shall include configured, customized, tested, and documented
Release 2 functionality for:
1. Payroll and Remittance;
2. General Payroll;
3. Special Payroll;
4. Personnel Voucher-related processing;
5. Leave Management;
6. Attendance Management;
7. Employee Self-Service functions, including payslip access, leave balance
viewing, leave filing, employee requests, and employee record access, as
applicable;
8. payroll computation test results;
9. remittance report templates;
10. leave and attendance rule configuration;
11. API, file exchange, or data synchronization validation, where applicable;
12. payroll parallel-run test plan;
13. updated user and administrator guides;
14. Sprint Review Reports;
15. signed-off user stories meeting the Definition of Done.
M3 shall be accepted upon completion of Release 2 testing, documentation, and
Product Owner or process-owner sign-off.
Full operational reliance on payroll shall still require the accepted payroll parallel-
run accuracy report under M5.
M4. Release 3: Strategic Talent, Learning, Wellness, Rewards, and Succession
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 190 from NTP
M4 shall cover the third HRIS release, focusing on strategic HR, employee
development, and employee welfare modules.
At minimum, M4 shall include configured, customized, tested, and documented
Release 3 functionality for:
1. Performance Management, including SPMS, IPCR, and OPCR;
2. Learning and Development;
3. Rewards and Recognition;
4. Employee Wellness and Welfare;
5. Health Profile;
6. Succession Planning and career progression;
7. related dashboards and reports;
8. privacy controls for sensitive and health-related data;
9. statistical reporting controls for health and wellness data;
10. backlog refinement logs;
75

===== PAGE 76 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
11. updated user and administrator guides;
12. Sprint Review Reports;
13. user story sign-offs by DepEd process owners.
M4 shall be accepted upon completion of Release 3 testing, documentation, and
Product Owner or process-owner sign-off.
Individual-level access to health-related or sensitive data shall be subject to
applicable law, approved roles, access controls, and DepEd data governance
requirements.
M5. Integrated Testing, Security Validation, Migration Readiness, and Payroll
Parallel Run
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 235 from NTP
M5 shall cover integrated validation of the HRIS releases prior to pilot deployment
and phased production rollout.
At minimum, M5 shall include:
1. integrated User Acceptance Testing logs;
2. system integration test results;
3. regression test results;
4. performance or load test results appropriate to the approved
implementation scope;
5. security validation report;
6. access-control validation report;
7. audit-log validation report;
8. data privacy controls validation report or checklist;
9. mock migration report;
10. data reconciliation report;
11. defect register and defect closure report;
12. payroll parallel-run accuracy report;
13. pilot Go/No-Go recommendation signed by authorized DepEd Product
Owners or process owners;
14. updated technical, user, administrator, and operational documentation.
Security validation shall include, at minimum:
1. review of user roles and permissions;
2. validation of privileged access controls;
3. testing of authentication and session controls;
4. verification of audit-log generation and retrieval;
5. review of sensitive data protections;
6. validation of backup and restoration procedures;
7. review of secure configuration settings;
76

===== PAGE 77 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
8. vulnerability scanning or equivalent internal security assessment;
9. remediation tracking for identified findings;
10. documented risk treatment for residual findings accepted by DepEd.
Independent third-party penetration testing shall not be required for milestone
acceptance. Internal security testing, vulnerability assessment, secure code
review, dependency scanning, access-control testing, and remediation of critical
findings shall be sufficient for M5 acceptance.
Payroll shall not be treated as ready for full operational reliance unless the payroll
parallel-run accuracy report has been accepted by authorized DepEd payroll,
finance, and HR process owners.
M6. Pilot Deployment, Capacity Building, Documentation, and SLA Readiness
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 270 from NTP
M6 shall cover pilot deployment, capacity building, operational readiness, and
preparation for production rollout.
At minimum, M6 shall include:
1. pilot deployment report covering agreed Central Office, Regional Office,
Schools Division Office, and school-level users or representatives;
2. production-readiness checklist;
3. training completion report for pilot users, administrators, HR personnel,
ICTS support personnel, and identified trainers;
4. knowledge-transfer materials;
5. updated user manuals;
6. updated administrator guides;
7. updated technical maintenance documentation;
8. training decks, job aids, FAQs, or video tutorials;
9. helpdesk scripts;
10. incident escalation matrix;
11. SLA readiness report;
12. pilot issue register and resolution report;
13. phased rollout plan.
Pilot deployment shall validate:
production readiness;
user access and role assignments;
core HR workflows;
recruitment and appointment workflows;
payroll and leave/attendance readiness, where applicable;
data accuracy;
system performance;
77

===== PAGE 78 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
helpdesk readiness;
training effectiveness;
defect handling and escalation.
Phased production rollout shall proceed only after pilot completion, closure of
critical pilot defects, completion of required training, and approval of the Go/No-
Go recommendation.
M7. Production Rollout, Final Handover, and SLA Transition
Maximum Delivery Window: Not later than Day 300 from NTP, or earlier upon
completion and acceptance
M7 shall cover phased production rollout, final handover, operational transition,
and full source code turnover.
At minimum, M7 shall include:
1. production deployment report;
2. phased rollout evidence;
3. final accepted release deliverables for all required modules;
4. final data migration and reconciliation report;
5. final payroll parallel-run accuracy report;
6. final security and access-control validation report;
7. final audit-log validation report;
8. final performance or load test report;
9. final defect closure report;
10. final training completion report;
11. final user manuals;
12. final administrator guides;
13. technical maintenance manuals;
14. operational runbook;
15. as-built system architecture;
16. data dictionary;
17. API documentation;
18. configuration documentation;
19. deployment documentation;
20. backup and restoration procedure;
21. access credentials and administrative account turnover;
22. complete source code turnover;
23. version-controlled repository turnover;
24. database schema and migration scripts;
25. build, deployment, and rollback scripts;
26. environment configuration templates;
27. custom reports, forms, workflow definitions, templates, and rule
configurations;
78

===== PAGE 79 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
28. integration source code, API connectors, middleware, adapters, and data
exchange scripts;
29. test scripts, automated test suites, and test data templates, where
applicable;
30. dependency list, package manifests, libraries, third-party components, and
license inventory;
31. system installation and local development setup guide;
32. System Turnover Report;
33. SLA transition report;
34. warranty and post-deployment support confirmation;
Full source code turnover shall be a condition for payment of M7.
The Service Provider shall turn over the complete, buildable, deployable, and
documented source code for the HRIS, including all modules, customizations,
configurations, integrations, reports, scripts, templates, utilities, and deployment
artifacts required to operate and maintain the system.
The source code turnover shall be made through a DepEd-controlled or DepEd-
accessible version-controlled repository, together with sufficient documentation to
allow DepEd or its authorized technical personnel to build, deploy, inspect,
maintain, modify, and continue the HRIS without dependence on the Service
Provider beyond the contracted support period.
M8. Project Closure, SLA Compliance Verification, and Final Acceptance
Maximum Delivery Window: Not earlier than Day 335, not later than Day 365
from the NTP
M8 shall cover the post-deployment stabilization and SLA compliance monitoring
period following production rollout and final handover under M7
Final acceptance shall not be issued if the source code, repository access,
deployment artifacts, configuration files, database schema, technical
documentation, or administrative credentials necessary for system continuity
remain incomplete or inaccessible.
At minimum, M8 shall include:
1. Final SLA Compliance Report including but not limited to system uptime
logs and availability monitoring records as evidence
2. Final Defect Closure Report
3. Notarized Certificate of Data Return and/or Destruction
4. Certificate of Final Acceptance
79

===== PAGE 80 =====
Section VI. Schedule of Requirements
For avoidance of doubt:
1. deployment to a staging or production environment shall not, by itself,
constitute completion;
2. demonstration of a baseline HRIS shall not constitute acceptance of DepEd-
specific requirements;
3. user story completion shall require compliance with the Definition of Done;
4. Product Owner or process-owner sign-off shall be required for each
accepted release;
5. critical defects must be closed before the relevant milestone may be
accepted;
6. high-severity defects must either be closed or covered by a DepEd-approved
remediation plan;
7. documentation must be updated with each release;
8. data privacy, security, access-control, and audit-log requirements must be
validated before pilot and production rollout;
9. payroll shall not be considered ready for full operational reliance unless the
payroll parallel-run accuracy report has been accepted by DepEd;
10. final acceptance shall require completion of turnover, documentation,
access arrangements, warranty transition, and SLA activation.
6. Inspection and Testing Requirements
1. Pre-Delivery Inspection
Pre-Delivery Inspection refers to testing and validation conducted prior to
the formal submission of milestone deliverables to DepEd for acceptance.
2. Post Delivery Inspection
Post-Delivery Inspection refers to testing and validation conducted by
Procuring Entity upon submission of milestone deliverables by the Service
Provider.
Delivery of each milestone under this contract shall be subject to post-delivery
inspection and testing in accordance with the Pre- and Post-Delivery Testing
Parameters attached as Annexes to Section VII – Technical Specifications.
7. Definition of Done
No module, user story, sprint increment, release, configuration item,
customization, integration, report, migration utility, workflow, or milestone shall
be considered complete for acceptance or payment unless it is:
1. traceable to a TOR requirement, approved backlog item, accepted user
story, approved configuration item, or approved change item;
2. configured, customized, integrated, implemented, or otherwise delivered in
the appropriate HRIS environment;
3. deployed to the agreed environment;
80